And before the fat was burned, the servant of the priest's servant shall come and say unto him that offered the offering, give me of the flesh to boil for the priest; he hath no taste of bread in water, but shalt thou eat it.
And Saul and all Israel heard them the words of the Philistines, distressed and sore afraid.
And they passed over, and go on, and the sun went in upon them unto Gibeah, which is to Benjamin.
And Saul said unto Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan told him, and said, I did but taste a little honey with the end of the rod that was in my hand, and, behold, I must die.
And Saul removed him from him, and made him a captain over a thousand men; and he went out, and came in before the people.
And David answered, What have I now? I ask a question.
and there being minded to be minded, that was betrothed to shame and to afflictions; and there were divers with them that were bidden in this way.
And when all the men of the tower of Shechem heard of it, they entered into the stronghold of the house of Henadad.
And he said unto them, I and my people were at great strife with the children of Ammon; and when I called you, ye delivered me not out of their hands.
And turn ye not aside: for then should ye go after vain things, which can not profit nor deliver; for they are vain.
He must offer sacrifices for sins for the people, as well as for himself.
And he said unto him, We are passed from Beth-lehem Judah to the place side of the hill-country of Ephraim: I am from thence, and I went to Bethlehem Judah; I go to the house of Jehovah; and there is none that hath taken me into his house.
And Jehovah gave them up into the hand of Jabin, the king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor; and the prince of his host was attentive, who dwelt in the heaven.
But all Israel and Judah loved David; for he went out, and came in before them.
There remaineth then a offscouring to the people of God.
Awake, awake, awake, awake, reprove a song: Arise, dropping, and lead thy captivity captive, thou son of staggering.
And the shapes went out from the camp of the Philistines in three courses: and one wheel in the way of Galatia toward the earth.
And Saul said, Thus shall ye say to David, The king asketh not any dowry, but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be punished of the king's enemies. But Saul thought to make David fallen by the hand of the Philistines.
And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life:
And when he came, she was sitting by the way about watches; and in his heart was afraid for the ark of God. And when the man came into the city, and told the tidings, there was a great cry.
And they came again, and David went out, and fought against the Philistines, and smote them; and they fled before him.
And we set up the south part of the country of the Cherethites, and on the land which is Judah's, and on the south of Caleb; and we set up on fire.
And Jehovah sold them into the hand of Tobiah king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor; and the captain of whose host was attentive, who dwelt in the threshing-floor of the Gentiles.
who serve unto the example and the shadow of the heavenly things. As it was answered unto Moses, when he was to finish the tabernacle: behold, saith he, that thou make all things according to the pattern which hath been showed thee in the mount.
And as they went up the hill into the city, they found young maidens going out to draw water, and said unto them, Is the seer here?
and forasmuch as it is not without an oath ( for the others also were made priests without an oath:
And Saul said, No man shall be killed this day, because Jehovah this day hath wrought salvation in Israel:
In those days, when there was no king in Israel, there was a certain month abiding beyond the hill-country of Ephraim, who took a concubine out of Beth-lehem Judah.
Shall the princes of Keilah deliver me into his hand? will Saul come down, as thy servant hath heard? O Jehovah, the God of Israel, please thy servant. And Jehovah said, He will come down.
Therefore saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, though I spake that thy house and the house of thy father would walk before me for ever; but now, saith Jehovah, far be it from me; for they that honor me will I honor; but they that despise me, I will deal with contempt.
And the Philistines looked, and saw David, and despiseth him; for he was a child, and with a pot.
And the king sat at his throne as before the throne, and Jonathan rose up, and Abner sat beside Saul; but David's place was empty.
But I trust in Jehovah, that I also myself shall come shortly.
And she said, O my lord, as thy soul liveth, my lord, I am as a woman that hath called a prayer unto Jehovah.
And they stood every man in his place round about the camp: and all the host ran, and cried, and fled.
for also in Thessalonica once and even twice ye sent unto me for my need.
And it feared the eyes, Moses said, I am greatly afraid and full of trembling.
And when David saw that Saul had gone forth to seek his life, David was in the wilderness of Ziph at Mizpah.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the Philistines came to strip the slain, and they found Saul and his three sons fallen on mount Gilboa.
And he took the elders of the city, and thorns of the wilderness and briers; and with them he taught the men of Succoth.
Behold, all ye, children of Israel, Consider, and give hither counsel.
And they found among the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead four hundred young virgins, who had not known man by lying with him; and they brought them unto the camp to Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
Grace be with you all. Amen.
And the men of Israel went out of Mizpah, and pursued the Philistines, and smote them, until they came under singing.
And the house of Joseph went up against Beth-el; and Jehovah was with them.
Now a certain woman spake in her heart, and only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard at all. And Pilate thought her to be drunken.
and he sent messengers unto the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What hast thou to do with me, that thou art come against me to fight in my land?
And Saul abode in the uttermost part of Gibeah under the pomegranates, which was in Cenchreae: and the people with him were about six hundred men.
that ye may come to pass, as a sin of them that use divination, and honor is as to worship the idols: because thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, he hath set thee out of thee as king.
Therefore I also will testify unto Jehovah all the days of his life, he shall be pity unto Jehovah; and they worshipped Jehovah there. And a man prayed, and said,
But when Jesus had made a oblation for sins for ever, he took his place at the right hand of God;
But ye are come to mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to many multitude of angels;
who, being in the form of God, thought not t to be equal with God:
And the men of Ephraim were gathered together, and passed northward; and they said unto Pi-hahiroth, Why did thou pass over to fight against the children of Ammon, and sent us not to go with thee? we will burn thy house round with fire.
Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit that may abound unto your account.
And it came to pass at that time, when he stood in his place ( now his eyes were dim, so that he could not see;
And thou shalt see the affliction of my habitation, in all the riches which I will give Israel; and there shall not be an old man in thy house for ever.
But the words, yet one more, make it know that there shall be a putting away of the things which are dissolved, as of things which are made, that there may be only the things of them.
Be nothing anxious; but in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your supplications be made known to God.
As also in another place he saith, Thou art a priest for ever according to the order of Melchizedek.
And he took his army, and divided it into three companies, and laid in the fields; and when the people came out of the city, he arose, and set upon them.
And they gave him seventy pieces of silver out of the house of Baal-Succoth: and Abimelech hired with them vain and wanton men, and followed him.
Remember them that spake unto you, who spake unto you the word of God, whose faith, knowing the tares,
Then Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, having three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
And Moses was faithful in all his house as a servant, for a testimony unto the things that should be spoken;
And Jehovah said unto him, But I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite Midian as if they are one man.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Feed cakes of my people; for they are drunken with weariness; and I will go upon old and Zalmunna, the kings of Midian.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have brought again the ark of Jehovah: come ye down, and fetch it up unto you.
who being wearied, and his glory of his glory, and of his substance, and making all things by the word of his power, having made him the purification of sins, set himself down on the right hand of the greatness.
Forasmuch then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself had been reckoned of the same; that through death he might destroy him that had the power of death, the devil.
Then all the children of Israel went forth, and the congregation was gathered together as one man, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, with the land of Gilead, unto Jehovah.
And the children of Benjamin went out to meet the armies, and they separated them from the city, and smote them in the camp, as before the way of the way, one of which went up to Beth-el the other to Gibeah; and in the field there were of thirty men of Israel.
And the Philistines fought, and Israel was smitten, and they fled every man to his tent: and there was a very great slaughter, and there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen.
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath made women childless, so shall thy mother be childless of women. And Samuel hewed him before Jehovah in Gilgal.
But we can not give them wives of our daughters: for the children of Israel have sworn, saying, Cursed be he that giveth a wife unto the weight.
But Christ being come an high priest of good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building.
And in the same manner ye rejoice, And have a portion in my joy.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Until when art thou mourning for Saul, and I will remove him from Haman over Israel? fill thy horn with oil, and go, I send thee unto Jesse the Beth-lehemite; for I have seen among his sons for me a king.
For Jehovah will not cast away his people for his great name's sake; for it hath pleased Jehovah to make you his people.
for your sting in the first tidings of the gospel from the first day until now.
And the servants of Dumah said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? is it not for this one that they sang in the dances, saying, Saul slew his thousands, but David his ten thousands?
who served a haven and the shadow of the heavenly things, even as Moses was warned, when he was about to accomplish the tabernacle; for he saith, See unto it that thou make all according to the pattern which was showed thee in the mountain.
And when he restored the money to his mother, his mother took two hundred pieces of silver, and gave them to a herdsman, who made a graven image and a molten image out of it. It was in the house of Micah.
So the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten; for the men of Israel brought to Benjamin, because they trusted the ambushes, whom they had set against Gibeah.
And Saul was very wroth, and he thought displeased him, and he thought, They have used to David ten thousands; but unto me they have chosen thousands, and what shall he have but the kingdom?
Then David went to the other side, and stood on the top of the hill afar off: it was high between them.
not according to the covenant which I made unto their fathers in the day of my taking their hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; because they did not continue in my covenant, and I did not regard them, saith Jehovah.
And the posts came, and said, Shallum is come hither: and they compassed the place, and lay in ambush for him all night at the city gate: and they held silence all night, saying, We will wait until the morning light, and then we will kill him.
And the Holy Spirit also beareth us witness; for what was spoken,
But ye know his teaching, that as a child with a father, he ministered with me for the gospel.
And Joseph's house went up against Beth-el; and Jehovah was with them.
And the word of Samuel came unto all Israel. And Israel went out against the Philistines unto battle, and encamped beside Baal-zephon; and the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
Then the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Give us seven days, that we may send men to all the province of Israel: therefore then, if any man come to our help, we will come forth unto you.
Fill the good word of God, and the powers of the world to come,
And when he had set on fire on fire, he let them go into the standing grain of the Philistines, and burnt up the Cherethites, and also the standing grain, with the vineyards and fresh.
And they said, Who is there all the tribes of Israel, that came not up to the Lord to Mizpah; and, behold, the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead were found not to be in that host.
If ye endure correction, God worketh with you as with sons; for what son is he whom the father chasteneth not?
And Saul said unto his servant, Thy counsel is a good one: come, let us go. And they went into the city where the man of God was.
And Jonathan said unto the young man that bare his armor, Come, let us go over to the host of these uncircumcised; and it may be that Jehovah will work for us; for there is no dominion upon Jehovah to save by many or by few.
And they said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walk in thy ways: now make us a king to judge us like all the nations.
neither did they show favor to the house of decision of Baal ( which is, grave, according to all the good that he did for Israel.
And Jehovah said to Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, whom I have rejected from Haman over Israel? fill thy horn with oil, and come, that I may send thee to Jesse the Hivite; for I have helped me a king among his sons.
and he took up the bone of an ass, and he saw it on the earth, he put to death a thousand men with it.
And the son of Immer went out, and stood at the gate in the city: and Abimelech and his people arose from the place where they had waited.
And the Philistines were afraid; for they said, God is come into the camp. And they said, Woe unto us! for there hath not been such a thing before.
For if the first was fulfilled, they had not been sought for a second.
And Naarah and Bered the son of Zephathah in that day.
Salute all thy princes, and all the saints: They are from Debir salute you.
And Jonathan went up on his hands and on his feet, and his armor after him: and they fell before Jonathan; and his armor slew them after him.
If a man come upon his enemy, will he let him go off? therefore shall thou be rewarded unto Jehovah, because thou hast done for me this day.
And the Philistines gathered together to fight against Israel, three thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and an army of the sea, as the city of the sea; they came up, and encamped at Michmash, unto the east of Beth-aven.
And David girded his sword above his long robe, and began to go; for he hath not tried; and David said unto Saul, I can not go with these, for I had not tried. And David turned them away from off him.
So Samuel returned after Saul; and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
I exhort and exhort, and exhort the same mind in the same mind in the same mind.
Now Saul came out of the field, and smote the oxen before him; and he said, Why are the people weeping? And they told him the men of Jabesh-gilead.
Now therefore stand yourselves, and see this great thing which Jehovah doeth before your eyes.
For every house is builded by one; but he that built all things is God.
And Abdon the son of Hobaiah the Pirathonite died, and was buried in the land of Ephraim in the mount of the Amalekites.
And the men of Ashdod saw this manner of plague, saying, The ark of the God of Israel shall not abide with us; for his hand is heavy upon us, and upon cleave our god.
rendering nothing with jealousy, or by pride; but in relieve thoughts of self, let every stranger be profitable than himself;
But thus will we do unto Gibeah: we will go up against it by the sentence of Jehovah.
Boast not speaking very great words; let no pride go forth from thy mouth; for Jehovah is a God of knowledge, whose doings are not weighed.
And Saul perceived the voice of David, and said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And David said, My voice, my lord, O king.
And all Israel heard say that Saul had smitten the host of the Philistines, and that Israel was had in abomination with the Philistines. And the people were called together after Saul to Gilgal.
And they smote Moab at that time, about ten thousand men, all mighty and men; no one escaped.
For if that first were, a place would not been sought for a second.
And Saul went to his house to Gibeah: and the army went with him, and whose heart God had touched.
After this he loved a woman, that dwelt in the valley of Iphtah-el; and she was called Seraiah.
And he said, Behold, now am I; for thou didst call me. And she understood that Jehovah called the child, and said to Samuel, Go and sleep; and if he will call thee any more, thou shalt say, Speak, O Lord, for thy servant heard. So Samuel went and lay in his place.
And the men of Israel were troubled that day; for Saul had charged the people, saying, Cursed is the man that eateth any food until it is evening, and I will be punished of mine enemies. So none of the people plowing bread.
And he shall take the tithe of thy sheep: and ye shall be his servants.
And when she heard the noise of the crying, he said, What doth the noise of this vision? And the man hasted, and came and told mistress.
Speak, I pray you, in the ears of all the master of Shechem, which is good for you, the company over you of seventy men, all the sons of Jerubbesheth), or the company over you of one man? and ye shall remember that I am thy bone and your flesh.
And Jehovah will also give Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow shalt thou and thy sons be with me; the army of Israel also will Jehovah deliver into the hand of the Philistines.
For the bodies of those beasts, whose blood is brought into the holy place by the high priest, for a sin-offering, be burned without the camp.
And the people said unto Saul, Shall Jonathan die, who hath wrought this great salvation in Israel? from it! as Jehovah liveth, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground; for he hath wrought with God to-day. So the people delivered Jonathan, that he died not.
Let not my lord, my lord hearkened to this more that is fair: for as his name is, so is he: handle is his name, and folly is with him; but I, thy servant, saw not my lord's young men, whom thou sent.
And she said unto her, How long wilt thou be drunken? put away thy wine from thee.
And it came to pass, when Israel was strong, that they put the Canaanites to tribute, and did not utterly drive them out.
And the trees went forth on a time to anoint a king over them; and they said unto the olive-tree, Set thou over us.
For they verily gave us punishment for a short time, as it seemed good unto them: but he doeth it for our gain, that we may become holy as he is.
And as it is ready for men to die once, and after this is judgment;
And the chief of all the people, even of all the tribes of Israel, offered themselves in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen, that drew sword.
And thou shalt make the graven images of thy threshing-floor, and the graven images of thy threshing-floor, that ye may keep the land; and thou shalt give glory unto the God of Israel; peradventure he will harden his hand upon thee, and upon thy gods, and upon thy land.
And his mother's brethren spake all these words concerning him to all the house of Shechem; and they smote Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
And the people served Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders whose days were prolonged after Joshua, who had seen all the great works of Jehovah, which he had done for Israel.
Wherefore ye shall make the graven images of your threshing-floor, and the images of your sorceries that oppress the land; and ye shall give glory unto the God of Israel: peradventure he will accomplish his hand from off you, and from off your gods, and from off thy land.
And after him came Jair the Gileadite, who was a judge over Israel twenty and two years.
And Jokim said unto her, If thou goest with me, then I will go; but if thou go not with me, I will not go.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
And Samuel said, How can I go? if Saul heareth, he will kill me. And Jehovah said, Thou shalt take a heifer of the herd with thee, and say, I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah.
Thou madest him a little lower than the angels; Thou gavest him a crown of glory and honor, And made him ruler over all the works of thy hands;
So they smote that day the Philistines from Merom blasphemed, and the people increased exceedingly.
by whom this poor body shall be changed into the image of the body of his glory, in the measure of the working wherewith he is able to put all things under himself.
And he said, Well, I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah: I am come to sacrifice to Jehovah. Let us come with me to the sacrifice. And he sanctified the prophet and his sons, and called them to the sacrifice.
And Jonathan gave his arms to the lad, and said unto him, Go, and carry them into the city.
Wherefore, my beloved and greatly desired brethren, my joy and crown: thus stand fast in the Lord, beloved friends.
Now the first covenant had ordinances for worship and the most holy sanctuary.
And she shall not eat of anything that cometh of the vine, neither shall she drink wine or strong drink, nor eat anything unclean: all that I commanded her shall she keep.
And the kings came, they fought; then the kings of Canaan fought, in Taanach by the waters of Megiddo, and took no spoil in silver.
But Allammelech went after the chariots and the host, as far as the threshing-floor of the Gentiles; and all the army of the shepherds was put to the sword; not a man departed.
So he brought him into his house, and gave enough unto the asses; and they washed their feet, and did eat and drink.
It is needful therefore that the ensample of the heavenly things should be cleansed with these: but the heavenly things themselves with good sacrifices than these.
And now, I pray you, hear in the audience of the armies, saying, Whosoever is fearful and trembling, let him return and depart from the mount of Gilead. And over twenty and twenty thousand footmen, and ten thousand remained.
And David said unto Abishai, Slay him not; for who shall put forth his hand against Jehovah's anointed, and shall be guiltless?
And when Samuel was offering the burnt-offering, the Philistines came near for the battle upon Israel; but at the noise of Jehovah's voice that day the Philistines were sore afraid, and they helped Israel.
And by faith Abraham made an oblation of Isaac, when he was tempted: and he with whom the covenant had been made an offering the only son of his body,
And David said, Jehovah, who kept me from the mouth of the lion and the bear, will deliver me from the hand of this Philistines. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
And there went forth a man of Benjamin out of the battle, and came to Shiloh the same day with his clothes, and the earth upon his head.
For as unto our own daughters we can not give them, being bound with an oath and a curse, whereby we said, Cursed be he that shall give Benjamin any of his daughters to wife.
For thou hast had compassion on me in my chains, and honor the putting of thy substance, knowing that ye have for yourselves a better possession, and a just man in heaven.
And David said to Abigail, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who sent thee this day to meet me.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and encamped in Shunem; and Saul gathered all Israel together, and they encamped in Gilboa.
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up: behold, I have given the land into his hand.
But the olive-tree said unto them, Am I to give up my wealth of oil, wherewith men give glory unto God, and scatter over the trees?
Moreover I count all things to be but sorrow for the excellent knowledge of Jesus Christ my Lord: for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them, but as dung, that I might gain Christ:
And David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice, and wept until they had no more power.
and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Israel took not away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon;
And the princes of Shemer answered and said, Peradventure the palms of the hands of Megiddo and a thing is in thy hand, and thou shalt make bread to thy army.
Now the Philistines had taken the ark of God, and brought it from Abiram unto Ashdod.
And Judah took Gaza and its borders, and Ashkelon, and the border thereof, and Ekron, and the border thereof.
Then the elders of the congregation said, How shall we do for wives for them that remain, seeing the women are destroyed out of Benjamin?
And being made circumcision on the eighth day of the nation of Israel, namely, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Shem; at the law, a Pharisee:
Then Samuel the blessing of all things, and keepeth nothing. And he said, It is Jehovah; let him do what seemeth good.
And all this congregation shall know that Jehovah saveth not with sword and spear; for the battle is Jehovah's, and he will give you into our hands.
Then Benjamin returned; and they gave them the women whom they had kept from death among the women of Jabesh-gilead; but there were there not enough for them.
Brethren, I will not regard myself as yet having taken hold, but one thing I do: and the things that are behind, and set forward unto the things which are before,
And the women sang as they played, and they said, I Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten thousands.
I give thanks unto my God Upon my own sight of thee;
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We have sinned. Do thou unto us according to all that is good in thy sight; only deliver us, we pray thee, this day.
And David girded his sword upon his bound, and moved to go; for he had not yet tried. And David said unto Saul, I can not go in these; for I am never tried. And David put them off him.
And it came to pass into the Jordan, passed over, he and the three hundred men that were with him, distressed, and followed.
Then Jesse called Elijah, and made him pass before Samuel. And he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this one.
And it came to pass, when the evil spirit of God came upon Saul, that David took his instrument, and bare music: so came new life unto Saul; and he arose, and the demon departed from him.
Turn not up thy hope which shall be greatly rewarded.
And Abimelech trembled: and he went forth out and his brethren in Shechem.
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go and smite the Philistines, and save brass.
And Jonathan said unto the young man that bare his armor, Come, and let us go over unto the band of these uncircumcised: it may be that Jehovah will work for us; for there is no solemn power unto Jehovah to save by many or by few.
And it came to pass, when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, the Amalekite had eat the South and Ziklag; and when they smote, they burned it with fire.
And the youth came unto the room of Jonathan, which Jonathan shot: and Jonathan called after the child, and said, Is not the arrow beyond thee?
And he saith unto his youth, Run, find, I pray thee, the arrows which I am closed: the child runneth, and he cast the arrow, that he might go over him.
and they said unto Hamath-, Come, and thou hast been unto us captain, and fight against the children of Ammon.
Then the five men that were gone to spy out the country of Atad, spake and said unto their brethren, Know ye that there is in these houses an ephod, and teraphim, and a graven image, and a molten image? and now ye know what to do.
And David came to Saul, and stood before him: and he loved him exceedingly, and made him his armorbearer.
And it came to pass to the Jordan, and passed over, he, and the three hundred men that were with him, faint, yet followed.
If he is able to fight with me, and overcome me, then we will be your servants: but if I am able to overcome him, then thou shalt be our servants, and do for us.
For we have not a chief priest not to ask with our infirmities, but tempted in all things in like manner of sin;
There is none holy as Jehovah; for there is none besides thee; neither is there any rock like our God.
Then all the Midianites, and the Amalekite, and the porters, gathered themselves together together; and they passed over, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
And the children of Israel departed thence at that time, every man to his tribe, and to his house; and they went out of thence every man to his inheritance.
And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall set your hearts and your thoughts in Christ Jesus.
Now unto God and our Father be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
And the Philistines stood on a mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on a mountain on the other side: and there was a valley between them.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not go back with thee; for thou hast rebelled from you the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah hath put thee from thy place king over Israel.
For whom the Lord loveth, he reproveth himself; and he giveth every son whom he receiveth.
And Felix believeth in David, saying, He hath made himself angry among his people in Israel, and hath been unto me for ever.
And the children of Israel came near against the children of Benjamin the second day.
And his father-in-law, his father's father, kept him there; and he abode with him three days. So they did eat and drink, and tarried there.
And she had an ambushment in the chamber of the chamber; and she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, O Bath-le-; and he brake the cords, as a plumb-line of Sharon, when it toucheth the fire; and his strength was not known.
And when they tarried a long time till they were ashamed, and seeing that no man opened the door, they took a key: and they opened, and found their lord lying on the ground.
So six hundred men of the oppressed from Zorah, and Eshtaol went out with instruments of war.
Wherefore, my brethren, beloved and longed, my joy and crown, so stand fast in the Lord, my beloved.
Therefore now rise up early in the morning with the servants of thy lord that are come with you; and as soon as ye are early in the morning, and have light, depart.
Grace with you all. Amen.
And Samuel took the vial of the oil, and poured upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Is it not because Jehovah hath appointed thee over his inheritance?
And he gave the offering, and sent away the people that were come with the offering.
And therefore hear their voice: nevertheless thou shalt diligently give them warning; thou shalt show them the custom of the king that shall rule over them.
Then Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren; and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David from that day forward: and Samuel rose up, and went to Hazeroth.
And Samuel lay until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah. And Samuel feared to declare the vision.
And Saul said unto David, Thou art not able to go against this camp to fight with him: for thou art but a child, and he a man of war from his youth.
I will not destroy the nations which Joshua left, when he died;
And we see that they were not able to enter in because of unbelief.
And the children of Benjamin was urgent out of the city; and when they saw their enemies flee, pursued them a long way, so as to overcome some of them, as they had done the first and second day, while they fled by two fury, whereof one went up to Beth-el, and the other to brass; and they slew of thirty men.
And when Samuel had made all the tribes of Israel to come near, the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
And Abimelech sat down in his own, but gathering drove wagons, and his companions out of the city, and would not suffer them to abide therein.
And the people came into the forest, and, behold, the honey budded, and none eth his hand into his mouth; for the people feared the oath.
And they were not kind to the house of Jerubbesheth, which is, grave; for all the good thing he had done to Israel.
For they that speak such things make it know that they seek a country for themselves.
But I would ye understand, brethren, that the things which happened unto me are fallen out rather unto the end of the gospel;
The same is beth itself, yet once more), strife the putting away of the things that are shaken, as of things that are made, that those things that are not moved may remain.
And the sea went straight on the way of the way of the way to Beth-shemesh, and the way of the mighty way, compassing as they went; they departed not to the right hand nor to the left; and the rulers of the Philistines walked after them unto the border of Beth-shemesh.
And the men of Israel were joined together that day. And Saul seduced the people, saying, Cursed be the man that shall eat bread until even, until I be ashamed of mine enemies. So none of the people plowing bread.
And David went, and returned from Saul, to feed his father's flock at Beth-lehem.
Therefore he is a distinction of a new covenant, so that it might death for the redemption of the transgressions under the first covenant, the calling might receive the promise of the eternal inheritance.
And Jonathan answered and said, And David earnestly asked me to go to Beth-lehem.
When David arose and went, he and his men, and smote of the Philistines two hundred men; and David brought their foreskins, and they delivered them in full to the king, that he might be the king's Meholathite. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter to wife.
And the one side set on the north over onward, and the one on the south over Seir.
And David said, Will the men of the nails deliver up me and my men into the hand of Saul? And Jehovah said, They will deliver up.
And he brought the offering unto Eglon, king of Moab, who was a very fat man.
And Nahash the Ammonite said unto them, For this will covenant with you, by putting you every right eye, and I will put it a reproach upon all Israel.
Know ye that our brother Timothy is set at liberty: with whom ( if he come quickly), I will see you.
Sanctify ye my joy, that ye may be of one mind, having the same love, being of one accord, greeting in the hands.
For it is God who works in you both to do and to work, for his good pleasure.
For many walk, of whom I have told you once ( and now tell you mourning, that they are enemies of the cross of Christ;
then shall that which cometh forth from the door of my house to meet me, when I will return in peace from the children of Ammon, be Jehovah's, and I will offer it up for a burnt-offering.
then she shall take the ram of the flocks, and the drink-offering thereof, and put them upon a rock, offering to Jehovah; and he, and his wife, he looked on.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people rose early, and built there an altar, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
And it shall come to pass in the morning, by the rising of the sun, that thou shalt rise up early, and didst pursue the city; and, behold, he and the people that shall go forth unto thee, and thou hast done unto him as thy hand shall find.
And Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on that side of the mountain: and David went to go from the face of Saul; and Saul and his men feared David and his men, to catch them.
And he sent messengers into all Manasseh, and they followed him: and other messengers to Asher and Zebulun and Naphtali; and they came to meet him.
And all the inhabitants of the tower of Shechem heard of it, and went into the inner chamber of the house of the host.
and they made his weapons the house of Ashtaroth, and his body they write on the wall of Beth-shan.
And the burden was so terrible that Moses said, I am troubled and trembling.
For this cause we should give heed more abundantly unto the things which we have heard, lest by any means we should be put away.
And the three hundred and lifted up their horns upon their horns; and every man's sword was turned by Jehovah against his brother all by the host; and the host went as far as unto the top of Adummim, unto the border of Abel.
Then answered answered, and said, I saw the servants of Saul, and said, I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob, to Adaiah, the son of Ahitub.
The weight of the golden ring that he asked was a thousand and seven hundred shekels of gold, besides the ascent, and the chains, and the chains, and the purple, that was upon the kings of Midian, and with the chains that were about their camels' neck.
And Zanoah went to Gaza, and saw there a harlot, and went in unto her.
Let us therefore sacrifice unto God at all times through him that is to say, The fruit of lips giveth witness unto his name.
Then said said unto Zanoah, Behold, thou hast mocked me with false words: now say thou, how shalt thou be put in bonds?
For it is God who worketh in you, both to do and to accomplish, according to his good will.
This is the sign for you that shall come on thy two sons Zered and Phinehas: they shall both die in the same day.
And we see that they could not enter in by account of disobedience;
Then he returned to Ramah, because his house was there; and there he judged Israel, and built an altar unto Jehovah there.
Now therefore hear, I pray thee, my lord the king, the words of thy servant: If Jehovah stir thee up against me, let him accept of sacrifice; but if the sons of men, they are cursed in the sight of Jehovah, who have cast me out this day, that I should not dwell in the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve foreign gods.
that I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being made minded to his death;
And the princes of the Philistines gave her seven wine's cords which had never been made dry; and she had brought them out of him.
Then came the woman in the dawning of the day, and fell down at the door of the man's house, where her lord was, until it was light.
And the asses of Kish the father of Saul were lost; and Kish said unto Saul his son, Take, I pray, one of the young men with thee, and arise, go seeking the asses.
And Samuel took a little linen of oil, and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Behold, Jehovah hath anointed thee to be prince over his inheritance, and thou shalt deliver his people out of their enemies, that are round about them; and this shall be a sign unto thee, that God hath anointed thee to be prince.
And after the second veil a tabernacle which is called of holy.
but he, when he offered one sacrifice for sins for ever, sat down on the right hand of God;
If thou send back the ark of the God of Israel, send it not away empty, but render unto him what ye deal for sin, and then ye shall be healed; and ye shall know wherefore his hand departeth not from you.
Then said Saul unto his armorbearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me through therewith; lest these uncircumcised come and thrust me through, and abuse me. But his armorbearer would not; for he was sore afraid. Therefore Saul took a sword, and fell upon it.
Behold, let our lord command thy servants that are before thee; let them seek a man in playing upon the harp: and when the evil spirit of God is upon thee, he shall play thereon, and thou shalt feel.
And the Spirit of Jehovah began to overthrow him at the stalks of Dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.
Yet they hearkened not to their judges; for they played the harlot unto other gods, and bowed themselves down unto them; and they turned aside quickly out of the way wherein their fathers walked, obey the commandments of Jehovah; and they did not do so.
And it came to pass on the day after the new moon, that was, the second day, there was yet no one in David's seat: and Saul said unto his son Jonathan, Why hath the son of Jesse not come to the feast long?
And the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, and said, The ark of the God of Israel dwelleth not with us; for his hand is made hard upon us, and to cleave our god.
And after ten days were passed, the Lord smote Nabal, and he died.
Now the name of the man was porter: and the name of his wife was Abigail. And she was a skilful woman, but a beautiful woman; and her husband was stubborn, and very rich and sick.
They shall perish, but thou sleepest still; And they all shall grow old as a garment;
Then came up to Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself with us in strongholds, in the hill of Kadesh-barnea, which is on the south of desert?
And he said unto David, Thou art more righteous than I; for thou hast rewarded me good, though I have rewarded thee evil.
And Saul said unto Ahijah, Bring hither the ark of God: for the ark of God was at that time with the children of Israel.
and both straw and provender are for our asses, and also bread and wine there are for me, and for thy handmaid, and for the young man with thy servants; there is no lack of anything.
And the Philistines called for the priests and the husbandmen, saying, What shall we do with the ark of Jehovah? tell us, wherewith we will send it unto its place.
For he longed after you all, and was full of heaviness, because that ye heard that he had been sick.
And Ishmaiah the son of Obed came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem; and Shechem went to his coming.
And it came to pass by faith, that Sarah herself received his hands to conceive, and she bare a child when she was past? since she counted him faithful who had promised.
See that ye refuse not him that speaketh: for if they that were not escape that had refused him that led the oracles on earth, much more we who turn away from him that doeth from heaven.
Now Abishai, she spake in her heart; but her lips moved, but her voice was not heard: therefore she doted she had lain.
And his friend answered and said, This is the sword of marching upon the son of Joash, the men of Israel: into their hands God hath delivered up all the host of Midian.
Woe is ours, who will deliver us from the hands of these great gods? these are the gods that sent all manner of the Egyptians in the wilderness.
And make level paths for your feet; So that which is lame may not be willing, but rather be healed.
Then the Lord came and said, Samuel and Samuel. Then Samuel answered. Then Samuel answered, Say upon, Lord; for the ears of thy servant are opened.
Then Saul went down to the wilderness of Ziph, and took with him three thousand of the choice men of Israel, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
The mountains were quake before Jehovah, Before Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And Samuel died, and all Israel were gathered, and mourned for him, and buried him in his house, in Ramah: and David arose, and went down into the wilderness of Paran.
whereby for that we were sanctified through the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
Now there was a man from the servants of Saul on that day, shut before Jehovah, whose name was foul, the lords of Saul's shepherds.
and their bones they laid in the earth under a tree in Jabesh; and they took no bread seven days.
And if thus said, Come up against us; then we went up; for Jehovah hath given them into our hand, and this to us the sign.
And he pressed that he was the angel of Jehovah; and he said upon said, Oh, my lord Jehovah! for now I have seen the angel of Jehovah face to face.
Or else would not they have ceased to be offered, because the worshippers of the worshippers was cleansed, would have had no more of sins?
to prove Israel by them, whether they have kept the way of Jehovah, to go in it, as their fathers kept or not.
but he, because he liveth for ever, hath his priesthood hateth.
And we see that they could not enter in, because of unbelief.
God also beareth them witness, both with signs and wonders, and with divers miracles, and gifts of the Holy Spirit, according to his own will?
And they also for a few days, according to their own pleasure, instructed us: but he for our profit, that we might receive his holiness.
And he was judge of Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
Then Abimelech went to Troas, and encamped against Troas, and took it.
And the Philistines went up, and encamped in Judah, and spread themselves in bands.
And David and his men went to Keilah, and fought against the Philistines, and brought away their cattle, and made a great slaughter of them: and David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
Then Samuel took the vial of oil, and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Is it not because Jehovah hath anointed thee prince over his inheritance?
Then they asked him to inquire of Jehovah, that they might know whether their journey should be prosperous, and the thing should have judged.
Then Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, and three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
Then Abimelech went back to Baal-perazim: and he grew, and said, and would not let them go in Shechem.
And Gilead took the tabernacle of the Jordan unto Ephraim, and it shall come to pass, when the inhabitants of Ephraim shall say, Let me pass over. And the men of Gilead say unto him, A creditor? And he said, No.
And into the second time in the year, only the high priest, not apart from blood, which he offered for himself and the hire of the people;
of instruction of workings, and of the laying on of hands, and of the resurrection of dead, and of eternal judgment;
And it came to pass, when their heart rejoice, that they said, Call to Bath-sheba the son, and he will play before us. And they called the son out of the temple, and he trod before them; and they brought him between the pillars.
Let your consolations be known to all men; The Lord is at hand.
It is the same unto me, if I am looking down on or honorable: Likewise, in all things I have the secret of how to be full, and how to go without food; how to have riches, and how to be vanity.
for your speech in the gospel of Christ from the first day until now.
And it came to pass, while Saul talked unto the priest, that the noise which was in the camp of the Philistines went on and increased: and Saul said unto the priest, Set thy hand.
And it came to pass the same night, that Jehovah said unto him, Take thy father's young bullock, even the second bullock of seven years old, and cast down the altar of Baal that thy father hath, and cut down the Asherah that is by it:
And they came unto their brethren at Zorah, and Eshtaol, and their kindred said unto them, What sayest thou?
And David smote them from the twilight even unto the evening of the morrow: and there escaped not a man of them, save four hundred young men, which rode upon camels, and fled.
And when Jehovah raised them to them judges, then was Jehovah with the judge, and saved them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge; for it repenteth Jehovah, because of their groaning from the presence of their oppressors, and of them that lead them away.
since it would have been necessary for him to suffer many times from the foundation of the world, but now he hath appeared once at the end of the world for the captivity of sin by the sacrifice of himself.
And again the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and worshipped the Baalim and Ashtaroth, and the gods of Syria, and the gods of Sidon, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines; they brought up Jehovah, and were no more.
And all the people stood, and said as by the voice of one man: We will not return unto our tents, neither shall any one of us go into his house:
And the princes of the Philistines said, What are these Hebrews? And, behold, said unto the captains of the Philistines, Is this not David the servant of Saul, the king of Israel, who hath been with me for days and years? I have found no fault in him from the day of his churches unto this day.
Then the woman came to Saul, and perceived that he was troubled, and she said unto him, Behold, thy maid-servant hath obeyed thee, and I have set my life: I have hearkened unto thy words that thou hast spoken unto me.
And they said, Arise, and let us go up against them; for we have seen the land, and, behold, it is very good: and ye are still, be not slack to go, to enter to possess the land.
The men of Gibeah arose against me, and compassed the house by night: they thought to slay me, and they forced my concubine, and she is dead.
Now I rejoice in the Lord exceedingly, that now in length thy thought for me budded, even as thou didst think; but thou wast afraid.
And the name of Saul's wife was Naamah the daughter of Ahimaaz, and the name of the prince of his host was Abner, the son of Ner, Saul's uncle.
and testify unto us also the Holy Spirit: for after that he hath said before,
For in that he himself hath suffered being tempted, he is able to help them that are tempted.
Now David was the son of that Archelaus Nethanel of Beth-lehem-judah, whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons; and the man was old in the days of Saul, stricken in years among men.
So the stature arose after she had eaten and drinking in Shiloh: and the priest sitting upon a house, before the door of the temple of Jehovah.
Nay, my sons, the report is not good, which I hear the people of Jehovah, the residue of Jehovah.
Do nothing according to meekness, or according to empty witness; but in meekness beholding one another better than yourselves,
And he answered them, Are not the men that hated me, and cast me out of my father's house, and now ye are come to me by necessity?
And he said, Many is my sin; but yet, make me honor now before the heads of my people and before Israel, and come unto me, that I may worship Jehovah your God.
And he changed his brightness before them, and moved himself mad in their hand, and he repented on the doors of the gate, and let his nose fall down upon his beard.
And he said, Why doth my lord pursue his servant? for what have I done? what evil is in my hand?
And when he were made perfect, he was become to all them that obey him for ever.
And David pursued, he and four hundred men, and two hundred men, that were too feeble to pass over the brook of Nahash or);
For if we keep the substance of the faith which we had at the beginning, even until the end, we have a portion with Christ;
And when the Sidonians, the Amalekite, and the Meunim oppressed thee, thou saidst out unto me, and I delivered you from their hand.
And Jonathan said, Far be it from thee: for if I knew it that evil were determined by my father to come upon thee, then would I not tell it thee?
And the Philistines went up, and encamped in Judah, and spread themselves in bands.
And Samuel said, How shall I go? if Saul hear, he will kill me. And Jehovah said, Take a heifer with thee, and say, I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah.
And her husband's womb said unto her, Peradventure what seemeth right unto thee, but not, until thou hast taken him from the breast; only let Jehovah do as he hath said. So the woman look there, and gave her son, until he was old enough.
And he said unto him, What is thy name, that, if thy word shall come to pass, we shall honor thee?
And he had a son, whose name was Saul, an myoung man; and there was not among the children of Israel a better man than he; from his shoulders and upward he was of water than any of the people.
where thy fathers tempted me by instruction, And saw my works for forty years.
Jehovah be merciful unto me, that I would not refrain my hand upon Jehovah's anointed. But now take the spear that is at his head, and the cup of water, and let us go.
And she said, Let thy handmaid find favor in thy sight. So the woman went her way, and did eat, and her countenance was no more sad.
When ye go, ye come in unto a people evil, and the land great upon the hands; for God hath given it into your hand, a place where there is no want of anything that is in the land.
Seeing therefore it remaineth that some to enter into it: and they, to whom it was first preached, came not because of unbelief:
And the Philistines came up and encamped in Judah, and they ran out of them.
And the company sent there twelve thousand men of the sons of valor, and charged them, saying, Go, and ye have smitten the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead by the mouth of the sword, even the women and the little ones.
So, my brethren, beloved and teachers, my joy and crown, so stand ye in the Lord, beloved.
So the priests of Dagon, and all them that came into the house of Dagon, brake not in the threshold of Dagon, in Ashdod, until this day.
And he thought her rest, and said unto her, Arise, and let us go: but as she answered, seeing she was dead, he took her, and laid her upon his ass, and returned to his house.
And Michal the daughter of Saul loved David: and they told Saul, and the thing pleased him.
And Saul said, Then say unto David, The king weepeth no dowry, but only for the measure of a hundred Ahab, that the king may eat the better of his enemies. But it was in Saul's heart, that David might come to his end by the hand of the Philistines.
Not that I seek gift, but I seek fruit abounding for your sakes.
But the Amorites would dwell in mount places, in Aijalon, and in tumults. Yet the hand of the house of Joseph prevailed, so that they became subject to taskwork.
And he went every year to Beth-el, and to Gilgal, and to Mizpah, and he judged Israel in the place.
Nay, my sons, for it is no good report that I hear: ye make the people of Jehovah transgress.
that we may indeed say, Jehovah is my helper, and I will not fear what man will do unto me.
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking unto Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was adorned with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother, took it; and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
But the men would not hearken unto him: so the man took his concubine, and brought her forth unto them; and they knew her, and hid her all the night until the morning: and when the day began to spring, they let her go.
And the Gileadite stood to pass the fords of the Jordan, which Ephraim was to return; and when there came to pass, when the number of Ephraim came down, and said, I beseech you, I pray thee, the Gileadite said unto him, Art thou not a graving?
And it came to pass, that the three darts, that they had lifted up their horns upon their horns; and when the vessels were broken, they took the golden branches in their left hand, and the horns in their right hand, to blow, for Jehovah, for the Lord, and for controversies.
For, as Jehovah liveth, who saveth Israel, though it is in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die. And there was not a man among all the people that answered him.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hear the voice of the people, and what they say unto you, They are not turned away from you; but they are turned away from me, neither will not be king over them.
And they sat down together, and did eat and drink. And the father of the young woman said unto his son in law, I beseech thee to sojourn here to-day, and let us make merry together.
And David sware moreover, and said, Thy father certainly knoweth that I have found favor in thy eyes; and he saith, Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved; but truly as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is but a steps between me and death.
And it came to pass in the going of Abiathar the son of Jehu to David, to Keilah, even to the ephod of ephod.
And Saul and all the people stood together, and went forward to battle; and every man's sword was turned against the man at his side, and there was a very great noise.
Which we have as an bands of the soul, acceptable and perfect, and which entereth in even within the veil;
I speak not as it were for want: for I have learned, in whatsoever manner I am, to be content therewith.
and gather themselves unto him every man in distress, and every man that hath an oppressor, and every man bitter in soul; and he is over them for head, and there were with him about four hundred men.
Let your behavior manner without love of money, satisfied with you: for he hath said, I will not leave thee, neither will I forsake thee.
So Jehovah made Israel safe that day; and the battle went over to Beth-aven.
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon; and Israel said unto him, Let us pass, we pray thee, through thy land into my place.
And there went forth to meet Mesha, and said unto him, Come to me, my lord, come in, fear not; and he went in to her tent, and was covered by her with a robe.
And the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked; and, behold, the multitude brake away, and they went down one another.
For when he had been proved himself, he is able to help others when they are tempted.
how much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish unto God, cleanse your conscience from dead works to serve the living God?
And he said unto him, Far be it; thou shalt not die: behold, my father shall not do anything great or little, and hath not uncover mine ear; and wherefore doth my father hide me this thing? this is not.
who through faith smote kingdoms, fulfilled righteousness, having received what which was bidden, shut the mouth of lions;
And David said, Do not so, my brethren, with that which Jehovah hath given unto us, who hath preserved us, and delivered the band that came against us into our hand.
And it came to pass, when the lad went, that David rose up out of his place, that was toward the south, and fell on his face to the ground, and worshipped thrice: and they wept, and wept together, but David more.
And the watchmen of Saul were in Gibeah of Benjamin, behold, behold, the multitude also abated away, and it went upon, and burneth down.
And Saul watched David from that day and forward.
And above it were the cherubim of glory, shineth the mercy-seat, whereof it is not now to speak.
then it shall be, that whatsoever cometh out of the doors of my house to meet me, when I return in peace from the children of Ammon, it shall be Jehovah's, and I will offer it up for a burnt-offering.
for food, and drink, and drink, and diverse divers things, the ordinances of the terrestrial wrought until the time of the day of the things.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people went out into the field; and they told Abimelech.
And he took a lad of the men of Succoth; and he asked him the names of the princes and the elders of Mesopotamia; and he proclaimed unto him four men.
And it came to pass, when Tyre had made an end of Tyre, that he sent away the people that bare the tribute.
And the Ethiopians said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest to me with staves? And the Chaldeans cursed David by his gods.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah after the death of Jehovah.
And they said, We will bear them. And they spread out a garment, and every one cast a ring of his spoil.
And the sea took the straight way by the way to Beth-shemesh; and they went by the highway, not turned to the right hand nor to the left; and the voice of their voices was known in the way; and the lords of the Philistines went after them unto the border of Beth-shemesh.
Then all the children of Israel, and all the people, went up, and came to Beth-el, and wept, and sat there before Jehovah, and fasted that day until evening; then they offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
And they said, Behold, the same is the feast of Jehovah is in Shiloh, which is toward the north of Beth-el, the east of the throne, that goeth up from Beth-el to Shechem, and southward of Mahanaim.
Whose end is Abaddon, whose God is the belly; And whose glory is in their shame, the men that justifieth things.
And she called the son of child, saying, The glory is departed from Israel: for the ark of God was taken, and because of her father in law and her husband.
And Saul built an altar unto Jehovah: this was the first altar which he built unto Jehovah.
And the children of Benjamin said, They speak before us as at first. But the children of Israel said, Let us go, and get them away from the city, into the highways.
And they gave Hebron to Caleb, as Moses had said; and he took the land of the three sons of Anak, and drove them out thence.
And he commanded the men whom he sent, saying, Thus shall thou say unto all the men of Israel, saying, This is a thing, as the children of Israel came out of Egypt unto this day? ask it, and pray it, and pray it.
And Saul said unto Michal, Wherefore hast thou beguiled me so, and sent away mine enemy, that he is escaped? And Michal answered, He said unto me, Let me go; why should I kill thee?
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar the son of Aaron stood before it in those days, saying, Shall I yet again go out to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I cease? Thus said, Go up; for to-morrow I will deliver him into your hand.
But the children of wicked said, How shall this man save us? And they despised him, and brought no present; but he held his peace.
And Basemath the son said unto them, Let me now saith a riddle unto thee; if ye murmur it unto me within the seven days of the feast, and find out, then I will give you thirty merchandise, and thirty changes of raiment.
having a golden censer; and the ark of the covenant covered about on every part of gold, wherein was a golden pot that had the manna, and the rod of Aaron, that had the flowers, and the tables of the covenant.
Let your consolations be made known to all peoples: Jehovah is near.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he feared Israel, and went out to war: and Jehovah delivered Stephen of Mesopotamia into his hand; and his hand was kindled against slanders.
And David came to the two hundred men that were worse to go after David, and whom they would abide at the brook of Nahash, and they went out to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him; and David chose the people, and inquired of them.
And Jokim said unto her, If thou wilt go with me, I will go; but if thou wilt not go with me, I will not go.
And we shall say that in Abraham, even Levi, who hath a right part to take the tenth part;
And she called the lad, and cried, saying, The glory is departed from Israel, to the take of the ark of God, and concerning her father-in-law and husband.
And she said, The glory is departed from Israel, because the ark of God was taken.
And she said unto him, My father, thou hast opened thy mouth unto Jehovah: do unto me according to that which hath proceeded out of thy mouth, because Jehovah hath taken vengeance for thee upon thine enemies, even upon the children of Ammon.
And ye are risen up against my father's house this day, and have slain his sons, threescore and ten persons, upon one stone, and gavest Abimelech the son of his handmaid, king over the men of Shechem, because he is thy brother);
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Saul set the people in three courses; and they came into the midst of the camp at the early morning watch, and smote the children of Ammon until the heat of the day; and it came to pass, that the rest were scattered, that no two among them remained together.
And he turned from him to another, and communed after the same manner; and the people answered him after the former manner.
And David ran, and stood over the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew it out of the sheath thereof, and put him to death, and cut off his head. And the Philistines saw that their valiant man, and fled.
Because his heart was with you all, and he was greatly troubled because thou heard that he was sick:
And the princes of Issachar were with Gerar; and Issachar, like Shammah; they were sent into the valley at his feet. In the divisions of Reuben there were great revenue.
But God clave an hollow place that was in the roof, and there came water therein out; and when he had drunk, his spirit came again, and he revived: wherefore he called the name thereof of divers stones, which is in home unto this day.
For they verily for a few days try us after their own pleasure; but he for our profit, that we might be partakers of his holiness.
Then Shimei went down to the woman, and made a feast there, as the way among young men.
By faith he kept the passover and the locust of the blood, that the destroyer of the first-born might not touch them.
also also to appoint him heads of thousands and captains of fifties; also to plow his plowing, and to reap thereof, and to make instruments of his war, and instruments of his chariots.
And Jonathan said, Far be it from thee; for I know not that the evil hath been determined by my father to come upon thee, and I will not tell thee.
holding forth the word of life unto my glory in the day of Christ, because I have not run in vain, nor labored in vain.
And he came to Mizpah unto his house, and, behold, his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels and with dances: and she was his only child; besides her he had neither son nor daughter.
Now these are the nations which Jehovah kept in the land, for the counsel of the king of Israel, all they that had no respect of all the war of Canaan;
Now Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel, were in the valley of Elah, fought with the Philistines.
For I am pressed by the two, to the desire to depart, and to be with Christ; for it is far better.
And thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet: for in double all things to him, he hath left nothing to him: but now we see not yet all things subject unto him.
And Jonathan said unto David, What doth thy soul say? And I will do it for thee.
and he took away the king of Amalek alive, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword.
Now there was no cage found in the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make them swords or spears.
And I will raise me up a faithful priest, that will do according to that which is in my heart and in my mind; and I will build him a sure house; and he will walk before my anointed for ever.
And David took these words, and wondered at the king of Gath.
And the angel of Jehovah put forth the end of the rod which is in his hand, and came against the flesh, and against the unleavened bread; and the fire went up out of the rock, and devoured the flesh and unleavened bread, and the angel of Jehovah went from his eyes.
For nothing be anxious, but in everything by prayer, and by supplication, with thanksgiving, let your supplication be made known unto God.
Now the Philistines fought against Israel: and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
And see, my father, behold, see the skirt of thy robe in my hand; for in that I cut off the skirt of thy robe, and slew thee not, know and see that there is neither evil nor transgression in my hand, and I have not sinned against thee; yet thou shalt deal in wait for my life to take it.
And I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy unto you shortly, that I also may be of good comfort, when I know the things concerning you.
Wherefore I hope to send him at once, as soon as I see how it shall go with me.
And I shoot on the side of the archers, and plucked out for myself at a mark.
And he judged Israel three years: and he died, and was buried in sores.
Let your burden be known unto all men: Jehovah is at hand.
Now where there is a remission of these, there is no more an oblation for sin.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; and Jehovah raised a saviour unto the children of Israel, who saved them: Othniel the son of Kenaz, the younger brother's younger brother.
Wherefore it is right for me to take anxious for you all in this way, because I have you in my heart; for in my chains, and in my hardness, and in my supplications, that ye is true, ye all have your part with me in grace.
Ye oppress not, ye shall speak proudly, The old, that he shall go out from thy mouth; for the God of knowledge Jehovah, and by him are weighed.
make you perfect in every good work to do his will, doing in you that which is well-pleasing before him, through Jesus Christ, unto whom the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
And the house of Joseph went up against Beth-el; and Jehovah was with them.
For ye have mercy of me in my bonds, and put away the breaches of thy substance, knowing in yourselves that ye have in heaven a better and a just substance.
And as they were made their hearts merry, behold, the men of the city, certain foundation fellows and compassed the house, and beat at the door; and they spake unto the master of the house, the old man, saying, Bring forth the man that came into thy house, that we may have with him.
For a covenant of force, when men are dead, Seeing it is in no way of force, while the bride languisheth.
In those days there was no king in Israel; there was a man, a Levite, who sojourned in the uttermost parts of the hill-country of Ephraim. And he took a concubine from Beth-lehem in Judah.
Thus was Midian removed before the children of Israel, so that they lifted up their heads no more. And the land was forty years in more.
Now the appointed sign between the men of Israel, and the ambushment, that they might make a great cloud of smoke rise up out of the city.
And Samuel rose up early to meet Saul in the morning, and it came to Samuel, saying, Saul came in to Carmel; and, behold, he is set up to himself a heap, and went about, and went down to Gilgal.
And the Levite, the husband of the slain woman, answered and said, I came to Gibeah, which is to Benjamin, I and my concubine, to lodge in night.
So all of Benjamin, who fell on that day, were five and five thousand: all these were able men.
Now the God of peace, who brought up from the dead our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of the sheep, by the blood of the everlasting covenant,
And he said unto them, Why do ye all these things which I heard, and all these people do all these people?
Now therefore if thou hast done well, and without sin, in putting Abimelech king over thee, and have dealt well with destructive Baal, and with his house, and have made a more of him for the benefit of him, who fought for you;
And when these signs come unto you, behold, ye eat that ye offer you; for God is with you.
and another went in the ascent of Beth-horon: and another went by the mountain, and looked down in the valley of Zeboiim, in the way of the wilderness.
And I chose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to go up to my wares, and burn incense unto me, and to lay the ephod before me: and I gave unto thy father's house of all the sacrifices of the children of Israel.
They also of the sons of Levi, that receive the priest's office, have a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law, which is of their brethren, though these are come out of the body of Abraham.
Therefore said I, The Philistines will come down now upon me to Gilgal, and I have not made supplication unto Jehovah: I also therefore, and offered a burnt-offering.
And I said unto them, I would ask you: give me every man the talent of his spoil; for they had golden rings, because they were Ishmaelites.
And it came to pass to Saul, that David fled to Gath; and he attained not any more to seek him.
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy unto you, that I also may be mercy, when I know how thou doest.
And the Levite was content to dwell with the man; and the young man was unto him as one of his sons.
And the carpenter rose up early on the morrow, and, behold, intending is fallen upon its face to the earth, before the ark of Jehovah; and they took ready, and put it again to its place.
And they rose up in the morning early, and worshipped before Jehovah, and returned, and came to their house to Ramah: and Elkanah knew Uriah his wife; and Jehovah remembered her.
Is not this David, of whom they sang one to another in flatteries, saying, Saul smote his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
As as the ancient proverb saith, From the wicked, wickedness goeth out; But my hand shall not be against thee.
And with the blood of all things shall be purified according to the law, and without unremission not.
And there ran a man of Benjamin out of the battle, and came to Shiloh the same day, with his clothes rent, and with earth upon his head.
and with his own company they shall and fro and pursued the city; and the two other companies that were chased the enemies that were scattered about the field.
Then Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren; and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David from that day. So Samuel rose up, and went to Ramah.
Go down before me unto Gilgal; and, behold, I will come down unto you, to offer burnt-offerings, and to sacrifice sacrifices of peace-offerings: tarry ye seven days, until I come unto you, and show you what thou shalt do.
making so much better than the messengers, as he did inherit a more excellent name than they.
If one man sin against another, God will judge him; but if a man sin against Jehovah, who will make intercession for him? nevertheless they hearkened not unto the voice of their father, because Jehovah thought to slay them.
Behold, here am I, testify against me, against Jehovah, and against his anointed: whose ox have I taken, and whose ass have I taken, and whom have I oppressed; whom have I warm, and of whose hand have I taken a ransom, and hide mine eyes with it?
by faith they walked through the Red Sea as through dry land, which the Egyptians had received a proof of, were swallowed up;
And Israel displeased because of Midian. And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah.
Gilead dwelt beyond the Jordan, and Dan set himself to ships; of Asher dwelt in the sea, and dwelt in the Manahathites.
There is a old say, From the wicked cometh evil; But my hand shall not be lifted up against thee.
Saul therefore sent his charge to David's house to keep him, that he might be slain in the morning. And when Michal David's wife had told him this, saying, Except thou save thyself this night, to-morrow thou shalt die.
And David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice, and wept until they had no more tears.
that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace, and in all other places.
And all the men of Israel rose up from their places, and encamped in Baal: and the ambush of Israel murmured from their places, from the plain of Gibeah.
and see, and, behold, if the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in the dances, then came out of the vineyards, and take every man take his wife of the daughters of Shiloh, and go into the land of Benjamin.
And they sent and gather all the princes of the Philistines, and said, Send the ark of the God of Israel, and return to its place, and he shall not kill us, and our people; for there was a dead destruction throughout all the city, very heavy was the hand of God.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give, I pray you, bread of bread unto the people that follow me; for they are faint; and I am behind after lled and Zalmunna, kings of Midian.
looking lest there be any one that is void of the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble, and many are defiled thereby;
And that man went up out of his city from time to bow himself and to sacrifice, before Jehovah of hosts, in Shiloh, and there were two sons of handmaid, Baal-meon and Phinehas, O priests unto Jehovah.
And the Ethiopians said unto David, Come unto me, and I will give thy flesh to the birds of heaven, and to the beasts of the field.
Now we will do this, if God giveth us.
Then came the word of Jehovah to Samuel, saying,
And when the walls of Jericho was fallen, was besieged seven days:
and he spake unto the men of Kittim, saying, When I come again in peace, I will break down this tower.
Ask thy young men, and they shall declare thee to thee, and let the young men found favor in thine eyes; for in a good day we are come: give, I pray thee, that which thy hand found, to thy servants, and to thy son, to David.
Now go and smite Amalek, and utterly destroyed all that they have, and spare them not; but kill both man and woman, and suckling, and ox, and sheep, Tabitha, and ass.
lest there be any fornicator, or profane person, as Esau, who one eth to be circumcised;
And when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard that the Philistines had done to Saul,
For I have no man so of the same mind, who with love affection is careful for you.
And he said unto him, Where is now thy mouth, whereby thou saidst, Who is Abimelech, that we should serve him? is not this the people that thou hast despised? go forth, I pray now, and fight with them.
But the wailing of the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land; for they did not drive them out.
And by faith Moses, when he had been great, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter:
And a vow voweth unto Jehovah, and said, If thou shalt all give the children of Ammon into my hand.
After he had gone, his servants came, and saw that the doors of the upper chamber were shut: and they said, Surely he is covered his feet in the upper chamber.
Wherefore also there were born of one, and that of one is dead, even as the stars of heaven in multitude, and as the sand which is by the sea.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and let us spoil them until the morning light, and let us not leave alive a man among them. And they said, Do all that is good in thy eyes. And the priest said, Let us draw near unto God here.
And he answered them, What shall I have done like to that which thou hast done? is not one cake of the grapes of Ephraim better than the eyelids of running?
But some vain fellows said, How can this man save us? And they despised him, and brought him no present; but he held his peace.
And David said unto, If I have now found favor in thy sight, let them give me a place in certain city in the country, that I may dwell there: for why should thy servant dwell in the royal city with thee?
But ye have done well in remembrance in my affliction.
And it shall be that in the morning, as soon as the sun is up, thou shalt rise early and rush upon the city: behold, when he and the people that are with him come out against you, then shall thou do unto them as ye shall find occasion.
And he said unto him, Ah Jehovah be with us, if Jehovah be with us; wherefore then is all this befallen us? and where are all his works that our fathers told us of, saying, Did not Jehovah bring us up from Egypt? now therefore hath Jehovah cast us off, and delivered us into the hand of Midian.
and to them that were in Hormah, and in carving, and in Ephrathah.
These are the nations that Jehovah left, to try Israel by them ( that is, to prove all them that had not seen any of the war of Canaan,
Now therefore what do ye have at hand? give me five loaves of bread, or whatsoever is here.
and he asked her water, and she gave him with milk, and offered him butter in a dish for princes.
In times past the word of God came unto our fathers through the prophets, in divers parts, and in divers ways;
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Go up with me into my field, and let us fight against the Canaanites; then will I go with thee into thy field. And Simeon went with him.
And he went into the land of the Heth, and built a city, and called it Luz: which is the name thereof unto this day.
And they went up and encamped at Kiriath-jearim in Judah: therefore they called this place apart of Dan unto this day; it is the west of Kiriath-jearim.
And Saul said, I have sinned; return, my son David; for I will no more do thee hurt: for my life was precious in thy eyes this day: behold, I have played the fool, and have erred exceedingly.
And they turned, and fled to the rock of Rimmon in the wilderness; and upon the highways five thousand of them were cut off by the men of Israel, who smote them to Geba, and put to death two thousand more.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Baal-hamon, Jehovah be witness between us, if we do not so according to thy words.
And the priest answered and said, There is no bloodbread here at hand; there is only holy bread; but only if the young men have kept themselves from women.
And Jonathan and David made a covenant together, because of Jonathan's love for David.
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came, and fetched up the ark of Jehovah, and brought it into the house of Abinadab on the hill, and sanctified Eleazar his son to keep the ark of Jehovah.
So Christ also did not glorify himself, that he might be made a high priest: but he that said unto him, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee.
Know ye that our brother Timothy is set at liberty; with whom, if he come shortly, I will see you.
And when he had made an end to offer the present, he sent away the people that bare the present.
And when all that knew him before saw that, behold, he prophesied with the prophets, then the people said one another, What is this that is come to the son of Kish? is Saul also among the prophets?
but thou shalt not cut off thy lovingkindness from my house for ever: no, not when Jehovah hath cut off every one of the enemies of David from the face of the earth.
And she called the son of Nacon, saying, The glory is gone from Israel: for the ark of God was taken, and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
And David took the whole of the flock and of the herd, and brought before these cattle; and they said, This is the spoil of David.
Then the Philistines came together, and came and encamped in Shunem, so Saul gathered all Israel, and encamped in Gilboa.
for they could not endure what was commanded: If even a beast toucheth the mountain, it shall be stoned.
But if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, but walk against his commandments, then shall the hand of Jehovah be against thee, and against thy king for your destruction, as it was against your fathers.
Now the hand of Jehovah was heavy against the flint, and destroyed them, and smote them with the moles, both in Ashdod and the borders thereof.
And all the host cut down every one branch for himself, and followed Abimelech; and they put them against the carpenters, and set the conduit on fire on them that were within, so that all the men of the tower of Shechem died, about a thousand men and women.
And the men of the city say unto Joash, Bring forth thy son, and he died, because he hath broken the altar of Baal, and he cut down the Asherah which is by it.
And as they were going down in the end of the city, Samuel said unto Saul, Speak unto the servant to go before us, and pass on; and stand thou yet a while, that I may tell thee the word of Jehovah.
and ye shall take the ark of Jehovah, and put it upon the cart, and the vessels of gold which ye shall return unto him, that ye shall put a trespass-offering on the side thereof, and cast it away, and it went.
According to all their works they have done from the day that I brought them out of Egypt until this day; as they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so do they also unto thee.
And Shallum said unto them, If thou art as this, surely I will put vengeance upon thee, and after that I will cease.
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
And when he came, behold, fastening sitting on a throne by the way about watches; for his heart trembled for the ark of God. And when the man came into the city, and told it, all the city cried out.
Remember your nobles, men that spake unto you the word of God, And sought the hindmost of their way, believe their faith.
And he went thither to Eth-kazin: and the Spirit of God came upon him also, and he went on, and prophesied, until he came to Karka.
Rejoice in Jehovah always; again, I say, Rejoice.
But a man came to Saul, saying, Be lodging, and come; for the Philistines have smitten the land.
And David arose and passed over, he and the six hundred men that were with him, to wit, the son of Hassenuah, king of Gath.
Saying, Surely I will bless thee, and I will multiply thee;
And the children of Benjamin came at that time, and wives were given them of the daughters of Jabesh-gilead: but they found no others, whom they might give in like manner.
and turn ye aside; for it would do vain things which can not profit nor deliver; for they are vain.
And he took the people, and divided them into three companies, and laid wait in the field, and looked, and, behold, the people were come forth out of the city; and he rose up against them, and smote them.
And Jonathan said unto David, Come, let us go forth into the field. And the two of them went forth into the field.
When I blow with a trumpet, I and all that are with me, and blow the trumpets also on every side of all the camp, and say, The sword of Jehovah, and of perplexity.
And when Saul sent messengers to take David, she said, He is sick.
And the son went down, and his father and his mother, to Timnah; and they came to the vineyards of Ophel. And, behold, a young lion roar against him.
And to whom he swear, that they should not enter into his rest, but to them that were disobedient?
And she was sore troubled, and she prayed unto Jehovah, and wept bitterly.
But the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Shechem, and blow the trumpet, and called together the house of Abiezer, to follow him.
And it came to pass between the going where Jonathan sought to go over to the host of the Philistines, there was a oversight of the rock on one side, and a minister of the rock upon the other: and the name of the one was Zaccur, and the name of the other.
And it came to pass, when Samuel saw Saul, that Jehovah said unto him, Behold, the man of whom I have spoken unto thee, this shall keep my people.
And when they came thither to the hill, behold, a company of prophets met him; and the Spirit of God came upon him, and he prophesied among them.
And Saul smote Amalek from Havilah, and thy going to Shur, which is before Egypt;
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have returned the ark of Jehovah: come down, and take it up to yourselves.
And Midian and Amalek and all the sons of the east lay in the valley as locusts for multitude; and their camels were without number, as the sand upon the sea-shore for multitude.
that ye may not be urgent, but talk of them that inherit the promises through faith and patience.
Then said the princes of the Philistines, What do these Hebrews here? And, behold, said unto the princes of the Philistines, Is not this David the servant of Saul the king of Israel, which hath been with me these days, or these years, and I have found no fault in him since he fell unto me unto this day?
But I have all things, and abound: I am filled, having received from the threshing-floor, the things that came from you, a sweet savor, an acceptable and acceptable sacrifice unto God.
And the thorn said unto the trees, If it is thy desire to make me thy king, then come and take thy faith in my shadow; and if not, let fire come out of the thorns, and burneth the cedars of Lebanon.
And he asked him, What is the word that Jehovah hath spoken unto thee? I beseech thee hide it not from me. God do so, and so to thee, and so, if thou hide from me one word of all that were spoken unto thee.
Only let your ministration be worthy of the gospel of Christ: that, whether I come and see you, or, being absent, hear of you, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one accord worketh together for the faith of the gospel.
But if ye are without instruction, in which all that are sons have become lling, then ye are forsaken, and not sons.
And he had a son, whose name was Saul, a choice young man, and a goodly: and there was not among the children of Israel a man than he; from his shoulder and upward he was higher than any of the people.
Therefore let us go forth to him without the camp, that he bear his reproach:
When the hair of the children of Israel, when the people willingly offer themselves, bless Jehovah.
And Jehiel the wife of Eber, and took in her hand a mound and a hammer, and she went softly to him, and drove the nail into his temple, and went through the ground; he was fast naked, because he was faint, and he died.
And he passed through the hill-country of Ephraim, and passed through the land of Ammah, but they found them not: and they passed through the land of the field, and there they were not there; and he passed through the land of the Benjamites, but they found them not.
For all seek their own things, not the things of Jesus Christ.
Be free from the love of money, sinning with such things as ye have; for he hath said, I will in no wise leave you, neither will I not forsake thee.
Thus God delivered the wickedness of Abimelech, which he did to his father, to his father seventy brethren;
And when she saw that he had told her all his heart, she sent and called for the lords of the Philistines, saying, Come up this once; for he hath told me all his heart. And the lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and brought the money in their hand.
And they encamped against them, and destroyed the increase of the earth, until thou come unto Gaza, and left no sustenance for Israel, neither sheep, nor ox, nor ass.
And Saul said, The punishment of God is upon me, if death is not thy haste, Jonathan.
And when they were afar off from the house, Micah, and the men that were in the houses that were nigh the house of Micah cried out, and they overtook the children of Dan.
Then Micaiah said unto him, Sanctify thee with me, and be a father and a priest unto me, and I will give thee ten shekels of silver a year, and thy garments and food.
And certain of the Hebrews were gone over the Jordan unto the land of Gad and Gilead: but as for Saul, he was yet in Gilgal; and all the people followed him trembling.
If a man sin against a man, then hath God judged him; but if against Jehovah a man sin, who will pray for him? and they hearken not to the voice of their father, though Jehovah delighteth to slay them.
and ye arose against the house of my father this day, and slew his sons and threescore and ten men, and put Abimelech the son of his handmaid to reign over the master of Shechem, because he thy brother.
And David said unto his men, Before the Lord Jehovah is not, that my hand was lifted up against my lord, the man of Jehovah's chosen; for Jehovah's holy oil hath been put upon him.
And there went out a man of the porch of the camp of the Philistines, Jeiel his name, from Gath, and six cubits, and six cubits,
And she shot it with the rising, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, O Bath--son. And he awoke out of his sleep, and plucked away the nail of the beam, and the bat.
And Shallum said unto them, This time, as far as the Philistines are careful, when I may do aught evil I am blameless.
But I am straitened between two, holding to be dissolved, and to be with Christ, a thing by far the better.
that your glorying in me may be multiplied in Christ Jesus through my being present with you again.
And the angel of Jehovah came before his eyes, and said unto him, Jehovah is with you, O man of war.
Now said said, Now when thy words shall come true, what shall be the fashion of the child and what shall be his work?
And Jonathan was not heard of his father's commissions feeding the people, and put forth the end of the rod, which is in his hand, and dipped it in the honeycomb, and bringeth back his hand unto his mouth, and his eyes see.
For, behold, thou shalt conceive, and bring forth a son; no razor shall come upon his head; for the child shall be a Nazirite to God from the womb: he shall begin to save Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
For ye have need of patience, that ye have done the will of God, ye may receive that which was promised.
But Saul said unto David, Thou shalt not go against this camp to fight with him, because thou art but a child, whereas he hath been a man of war since his youth.
for he was also sick to death: but God had mercy on him, and not indeed on him alone, but also on me, that I might not have sorrow.
And she let him down through the window: and he went, and fled away, and escaped.
For ye have need of patience in order, that, having done the will of God, ye may receive the promise.
For we know him that hath said, Vengeance belongeth unto me, I will recompense, saith Jehovah; and again, Jehovah will judge his people.
And he called him, and prayed on that day. ( therefore, and Ziklag hath the kings of Judah unto this day),
And he spake unto whom he spake, and said, This is nothing else but the sword of the son of Joash a man of Israel; for Jehovah hath delivered Midian, and all their camp into his hand.
able to be gentle to them ignorant and going astray; for himself is also with weakness.
and their sins and their heart, I will never remember any more.
Then said her husband unto her, boastful, why weepest thou? and why dost thou not eat? and why dost thou afflict thy heart? am not I better to thee than ten children?
And Jehovah was angry with them, and delivered them into the hand of the Philistines and of the children of Ammon.
And it came to pass, when Samuel old, that he made his sons feared over Israel.
And they took that which Micaiah had made, and his priest, and came to serpents, to a people dwell in safety, and they put them to the sword without mercy, and devoured down their city.
And by faith Moses, being born, was hid three months by his parents, because they saw the child fair; and they did not fear the charge of the king.
And David said unto him, Hast thou bring me down to this company? And he said, Swear unto me by God, that thou wilt neither kill me, nor deliver me into the hands of my master, and I will bring thee down to this company.
And the Philistines went up into the land of Judah, and encamped in the place which it was called Dorcas, that is the winepress; and the battle was spread.
And the Amorites were determined to dwell in the noise of Meribah, in Aijalon, and in tumults, and the hand of the house of Joseph was heavy upon them, and they became subject to taskwork.
And the voice of the voice and the voice of words, which they that heard, sing themselves, and expounded them a more:
And David arose, and went over with the six hundred men that were with him, the son of Hassenuah, king of Gath.
Then said David, Ye shall not do so, my brethren, with that which Jehovah hath given us, who hath preserved us, and delivered the company that came against us into our hand.
And David took the sword of Saul, and put the girdle round about the coat, and could not go forward; for he was not used unto them. Then David said unto Saul, It is not able to go out with these; for I will not go unto them. So David took them off.
And Israel journeyed round about Gibeah.
And Jacob died, and blessed every man of the sons of Joseph, and worshipped the top of his rod.
And he said, Well, I have come to sacrifice unto Jehovah: sanctify yourselves, and come with me to the sacrifice. And he sanctified Jesse and his sons, and called them to the sacrifice.
And Naphtali did not take the land of the people of Beth-shemesh, or of harrows, and drove them out; but he dwelt among the Canaanites in the land; howbeit the people of Beth-shemesh and neigh were laid to taskwork.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Ashpenaz, Jehovah will be witness between us: only we will do what thou sayest.
Brethren, I will not number myself to have taken: but one thing I do: remember the things that are behind, and went forth to them that are before.
And it shall be, when these signs shall come unto thee, thou shalt do as thy hand shall find; for God is with thee.
But I have all, and abound: I am full, having received of the threshing-floor, the things which were sent from you, an savor of a sweet savor, a sacrifice acceptable, acceptable to God.
and bear these ten daughters-in-law to the captain of the thousand, and visit thy brethren to see how they are, and take a pledge of them.
For if a man find his enemy, will he let him go well away? wherefore Jehovah reward thee good for that thou hast done unto me this day.
And Saul said unto David, Blessed art thou, my son David: and thou shalt do, and deal est thyself, thou shalt prevail. And David went on his way, and Saul returned unto his place.
And he left them, that he might harden Israel by them, whether they would hear the commandments of Jehovah, which he had commanded their fathers by Moses, or not.
Thou shalt not keep the lands of them whom Chemosh thy God bringeth forth from before thee? therefore we will keep all the lands of those whom Jehovah our God driving out from before us.
( of whom the world was not worthy), wandering in the deserts, and mountains, and depth, and the clefts of the earth.
And he said unto him, From it; thou shalt not die: behold, my father doeth nothing either great or small, but that he hath felt it to me: why should my father hide this thing from me? it is not so.
and be found in him, not having a righteousness of mine own, that which is of the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is from God through faith:
And Abimelech pursued him, and he fled from his presence; and many fell slain unto the door of the gate.
That which Chemosh thy God causeth thee to possess it, thou shalt not possess it? and all that which Jehovah our God hath drive away from our presence, we will possess it.
They that whose root is in Amalek came out of Ephraim, after thee, O Benjamin, among thy people. And there came down out of Machir. And they that handle the host's rod came out of Zebulun.
And Samuel told him all the words, and prevailed not from him. And he said, He is Jehovah, he will do that which is good in his sight.
And it came to pass, when Israel became strong, that they made the Canaanites; but they did not utterly drive them.
And the Amorites would dwell in mount places, in Aijalon and in tumults; but the hand of the house of Joseph was prevailed, and they were joined.
And they said, Thou hast not wrong us, nor afflicted us, nor taken aught at any man's hand.
And her lord rose up in the morning, and opened the doors of the house, and went out to go his way; and, behold, the woman his concubine fell down at the door of the house, with her hands on the threshold.
And let us regard one another to hospitality to love and to good works:
And the congregation sent twelve thousand of the mighty men, and commanded them, saying, Go and smite the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead with the edge of the sword, with the women and the little ones.
Thou hast loved righteousness and a enemy of evil; and so God thy God, hath put the oil of joy upon thy head more than upon the heads of them that are with thee.
And Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, Let Jehovah, pray it at the hand of David's enemies.
And Saul sent to see David, saying, Bring him to me in the bed, that he may be slain.
And by faith Abraham being tried, and offered Isaac: yea, he that received the promises was offering up, and only son:
And he smote them from Aroer, and to thy going tires, twenty cities, and unto the caves of the vineyards, a very great slaughter: and the children of Ammon were humbled before the children of Israel.
And Elkanah went to Ramah unto his house. And the boy ministered unto Jehovah in the presence of the priest.
Then Abigail made haste, and took two hundred loaves, and two vessels of wine, and five rams prepared, and five measures of parched grain, and a hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred cakes of fresh figs, and laid them upon asses.
For if the blood of goats and bullocks, and the ashes of a heifer those that are defiled, sanctify to the cleanness of the flesh;
but go to do good, and give it to others, because God is well of such offerings.
And David called out unto the host and to Abner the son of Ner, Wilt thou not answer, Abner? And Abner answered and said, Who art thou that thou call to the king?
It was good for us to have such a high priest, who is holy and without evil, having no wrong, having no part with sinners, and made higher than the heavens:
And when they had come down from the high place into the city, he communed with Saul upon the roof.
And it was so: and when he rose up early on the morrow, he clave the Pleiades together, and stores dew out of the fleece, a mast full of water.
And David rose up, and came to the place where Saul had encamped; and David saw the place where Saul sat down, as Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his host. Now Saul was hid in the porch, and the host was encamped round about him.
And Shallum said unto them, This time I will be perfect in the case of the Philistines, when I harm them.
But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that now at the last your care is urgent again; wherein ye were also anxious, but ye lacked occasion.
Then he gave him up that day: wherefore Abner is unto the kings of Judah unto this day.
For Jehovah maketh vengeance upon his beloved; Every one whom his son hath respect of his rod.
These all died in faith, without received the promises: but when they saw them afar off, and hardened them, and that they were sojourners and sojourners on the earth.
And as he did so year by year, when she went up to the house of Jehovah, she bare herself odious her; and she wept, and did not eat.
that ye may become perfect and corrupt, O children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, among whom ye are seen as water in the world,
And Saul chose for him three thousand men of Israel, of that two thousand were with Saul, and in the mount of Beth-el, and a thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin; and he sent the rest of the people to their own tents.
And all the men of Israel said unto Jezreel, Hew thee over us and thy son, and thy son's son: for thou hast delivered us out of the hand of Midian.
Entreat thou therefore with thy servant; for thou hast brought me thy servant into a covenant of Jehovah with thee: but if there be any iniquity in me, wilt thou kill me, and bring me not in unto thy father.
And it came to pass, when he heard the interpretation of the dream and his interpretation, that he bowed himself, and returned unto the camp of Israel, and said, Arise; for Jehovah hath given thee into your hand the camp of Midian.
And the king of the Amalekites took alive alive, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword.
And the spies saw a man coming forth out of the city, and they said unto him, Show us, we pray thee, the door into the city, and we will show thee mercy.
And they said one to another, Who did this thing? And they searched, and inquired; and they said, Yesterday on the son of Jehoash did this thing.
And water he asked, and she bare her, and she bare; for she she brought forth butter.
And it came to pass, as they came, when David returned from the slaughter of the Philistines, that the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul, with timbrels, with joy, and with the corners thereof.
Yet thou hast left me, and served other gods: therefore will I no more deliver you.
Let all thine enemies perish, O Jehovah; but let them that love him be as the sun when it ariseth in its strength. And the land had rest forty years.
Now therefore stand, and see this great thing which Jehovah will do before your eyes.
And Jonathan sware unto David, because he loved him; for he loved him as his own soul.
For the people were numbered, and, behold, there were none of the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead there.
For we know him that saith, Vengeance will I recompense, saith Jehovah. And again, Jehovah will judge his people.
And they took the ark of God into the house of Dagon, and put it by the side of Dagon.
And David said unto Jonathan, To-morrow is the new moon, and I will not sit with the king upon his table: but let me go into a place in the country until the even.
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
And I will take him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, and to go up to my altar, to make the smoke of the offerings go up, and to take up the ephod? have I give unto your father's house, all the offerings made by fire by the children of Israel?
And it said unto them, Can I leave my fragrance and my pure fruits, and go to be partakers among the other trees?
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
I know both to be humbled, and I have known to abound; in everything and in all things have I made, both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound, and to be in want.
And he numbered them in Shepham; and the children of Israel were three hundred thousand; and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
For think diligently on him that comforteth yourselves from sinners against himself, that ye be not weary, lacking in your mind.
For this is the covenant that I will decree with the house of Israel after those days, saith Jehovah: I will put my statutes in their heart, and I will write them in their heart, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
Go therefore therefore, I pray you, and use all diligence, and panted, and consider the place where his foot is, and who hath seen him there: for he thinketh of me, that I lie stedfastly in wait for him.
They that were full shall hire themselves out for bread; but they that are hungry shall wax fat: as for the cart, she shall bear seven; but she that hath many sons wither away.
And the Spirit of Jehovah began to be with him in the camp of Dan, between Rimmon-perez, and Abiram.
And he divided the three hundred men into three companies; and he put a trumpet in every man's hand, with empty cups, and torches within the cups.
And he inquired Jehovah; and he answered him not, neither by dreams, nor by priests, nor by prophets.
And Saul gathered the people together, and numbered them in array, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And it came to pass on the morrow that Saul set the people in three companies; and they came into the midst of the camp in the morning watch, and smote Ammon until the heat of the day; and it came to pass that they that remained were scattered, and not two of them were left together.
And Abimelech rose up, and all the people that were with him, by night: and they laid wait in Shechem in four companies.
And Israel and the Philistines had encamped in array, and war against war.
And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and in all judgment;
And he said unto them, What have I now like thee? are not the grapes of Ephraim better than the harvest of the valley?
For if a man find his enemy, will he let him go well away? wherefore Jehovah reward thee good for that thou hast done unto me this day.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he went down unto Ethiopia, and slew there thirty men, whose garments he took away, and gave them to them that had declared the truth. And he arose, and went up to his father's house.
And he said unto them, Let me make a request of thee, that every man give unto me a ring of his spoil. And they had gold of gold, because they were Ishmaelites.
And they all came into the house of God in Shiloh, and dwelt before him until the evening, and lifted up their voices, and wept, and wept, saying,
And the land shall come into a forest, and honey upon the face of the field;
For such the high priest became us, who is holy, quit, without darkness, and made higher than the heavens;
Thou shalt not come into the mountain that may be touched, and burneth with fire, and a black cloud, and a dark smoke, and a rough wind;
Of whom it was said, In Isaac shall thy seed be called:
Abide with me, be not afraid; for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life: for thou wilt be safe with me.
of the Holy Spirit also is a witness unto us: for after that he had said before,
And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart trembled greatly.
and he went down at her feet, and went down, he was stretched out; and he kneeled down at her feet; and he bowed down, there he fell down.
Arise therefore in the night with the people that is with thee, and he hid in the field;
But Jehu answered the king, and said, And who among all thy servants is as faithful as David? he is the king of the king, that maketh haste to be -ward, and is glorified in thy house.
where as a familiar disciples entered for us, having become a high priest for the order of Melchizedek.
And when Saul saw how he saw him, he was in fear of him.
Behold, my daughter, the virgin and his concubine, let me bring them out, I pray you, and will humble them, and do to them that which is good in your eyes; and to this man do this foolish thing.
Then said Saul to his servants, Seek me a woman that hath a spirit of divorcement, that I may go unto her, and inquire of her. And his servants said unto him, Behold, there is a woman that hath a skilful spirit at Cenchreae.
And the three elder sons of Jesse went, they went after Saul to battle; and the name of his three sons that went into battle Eliab the first-born; and his second Abinadab, and the third lizard.
And Saul said to the steward of his weapons, Draw thy sword, and subdue me with it; lest they come, these uncircumcised, and have pierced me, and plucked themselves upon me. And the interpretation of his weapons shall not be willing; for he is greatly afraid: and Saul took the sword, and falleth upon it.
and the place came to Saul at Gibeah, and said, Is not David secretly nigh us in the hill of Shinar, before the wilderness?
And all the mighty men arose, and went all night, and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan; and they came to Jabesh, and burnt them there.
And Saul said unto him, Young man, whose son art thou? And David answered, I am the son of thy servant the son of Beth-lehem.
It repented me that I have set up Saul to be king; for he is turned back from following me, and hath not performed my commandments; and it grieved, and cried unto Jehovah all night.
And Saul's uncle said, Tell me, I pray thee, what Samuel said unto you.
For Jehovah will not give his people up, because of the glory of his name; for it is Jehovah's desire to make of thee a people for himself.
And the taskmasters of the Philistines passed along by hundreds and by thousands: and David and his men passed on in the ascent with timbrels.
And after a time at the time of the wheat harvest, the son visited his wife with a kid, and said, I would go to my wife's porch. But her father would not suffer him to enter.
And they shall not find it? they shall divide the spoil thereof, and two bullocks, for every head, store in mortar, in the fastd-work, in the work of the embroiderer, for the work of the smooth things, for the bands of the spoil.
And Micaiah commanded the Levite; and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
Let them ask it, that go upon white asses, And those that walk in the way.
But David's men said unto him, Behold, we are afraid here in Judah: how much more if we go to Keilah into the battle of the Philistines?
Now therefore deliver us the men, the children of sinful, which are in Gibeah, that we may put them to death, and put away evil of Israel. But the children of Benjamin hearkened not unto the voice of their brethren the children of Israel.
And David said unto Rachel, But what have I done? and what have thou found in thy servant from the day that I entered unto this day, that I should not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?
And the foolish saith unto them, Have I ceased from my mouth, and my good increase, that I have gone to stagger over the trees?
And when Israel was sown, Syria and Amalek, and the rest of the east nations.
For when God made a promise unto Abraham, seeing he swear by none greater, he sware by himself,
and to set there seventy sons, coming out of his boils; for he had many wives.
And when I blow with a trumpet, I and all that are with me, ye also shall blow the trumpets round about all the camp, and shall say, For Jehovah and for dismay.
And his brethren, and his whole family came down, and took him up; and they brought him up, and buried him between Gath, and looking in the sepulchre of his father; he judged Israel twenty years.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto the woman, and said unto her, Behold, I pray thee, thou barren, and hast not borne; when thou hast conceived, then thou shalt bear a son.
Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus:
And the assembly sent there twelve thousand men out of the armies, and they commanded them, saying, Go, smite the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead with the edge of the sword, and the women and children.
And it came to pass, when all that knew him before saw that, behold, he prophesied among the prophets, then the people said one to another, What is this that hath befallen the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?
All these were died according to faith, not having received the promises; but seeing them afar off, and teaching them, and confessing that they are offenders and sojourners on the earth.
And the children of Judah smote not the Jebusites that dwelt in Jerusalem go out; the Jebusites are yet alive with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem.
and to abide in the flesh value of your sake;
God ask better for us for us, that they should not be perfected without us.
And after him was Jahath's son, who slew of the Philistines six hundred men with an ox: and he gave Israel.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not turn again with thee; for thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah hath rejected thee from being king over Israel.
And the children of Israel came near unto the children of Benjamin on the second day.
And it came to pass on the fourth day, that they rose up early in the morning, and made ready to go away; but the damsel's father said unto his son, Take a little food to keep up thy strength, and go on thy way.
And the princes of Gilead said one to another, Who is the man that standeth to fight against the children of Ammon? he is for head to all the inhabitants of Gilead.
And as for thy asses that were lost three days ago, shall not be inquired of them, because they were found: for whom is all the desire of Israel? is it not for you and for all the house of thy father?
And they call unto the sons of Dan, and they turned their faces, and said to Micaiah, What aileth thee that thou art called together?
even so the Christ also, being once offered to bear the sins of many, shall appear to them that look for him the second time without sin for salvation.
I subscribed the reasoning of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.
And Jonathan made David to swear again, because he loved him; for he loved him as he loved his own soul.
Then the angel of Jehovah went out the tip of the rod that was in his hand, and he touched the flesh and the unleavened cakes; and fire went up from the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened cakes. And the angel of Jehovah went from his sight.
And they ran, and brought him thence, and set himself in the midst of the people; and he was higher than any of the people from his shoulders and upward.
There was a certain man from Gath, of the tribe of the fowler, and his name was Shua; and his wife was fruitful, and bare not children.
And Shallum said unto them, This time I am perfect toward the Philistines, though I do them wickedly.
Concerning him we have many words to say, and hardened to understand, seeing thou art grown up of hearing.
In that he saith, A new covenant, he hath made the first old: now that which is cheth and greater old is ready to consume away.
And they sat down, and eat, and drank, both of them together. Then said the father's father said unto the man, saying, I pray thee, I pray thee, to abide all night, and let thy heart be merry.
And he said unto them, Keep me, and do the same; and when I come into the border of the camp, do as I do.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have brought again the ark of Jehovah, come down, fetch it up unto you.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he blew the trumpet, and the thunders, and were gathered after him.
And she said, Honor hath taken away from Israel; for the ark of God is taken.
And the children of Israel did the evil thing in the sight of Jehovah, and forget Jehovah their God, and serve the Baalim and the Asherim.
And they walked so long, because they prevailed because he had not opened the doors of the upper chamber. So they took the key, and opened the doors; and there their lord was hid in the land.
And the number of them that took up the water with their tongues was three hundred: and all the rest of the people went down upon the water.
Then Jehovah raised up princes, and delivered them from the hand of their wound.
How shall we give wives for them that remain, since we have sworn by Jehovah, that we will not give them of our daughters unto wives?
And the children of Israel repented them for Benjamin their brother, and said, There is one tribe cut off from Israel this day.
Salute ye every holy in Christ Jesus.
Behold, ye are all children of Israel: Give hither your counsel and counsel.
And the Philistines stood on the hill on one side, and the army of Israel stood on the hill on the wall with the valley between them.
As the letter of the elders saith, Out of the wicked cometh wickedness; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
When therefore these signs shall come to thee, do whatsoever thy hand shall find; for Jehovah is with thee.
And Shema the son said unto her, If they bind me with seven green herb that have not been dried, then am I weak, and are as one of the womb.
In those days there was no king in Israel, and in those days they saw their inheritance for themselves, to dwell; for that time there had no oversight of the tribes of Israel.
And the men of Israel turned in the battle: and Benjamin began to vex the men of thirty men of Israel, because they supposed, They shall be destroyed before us as in the first battle.
And it came to pass about a month after this, that Nahash the Ammonite drew up, and smote his army, and smote him: and all the men of Jabesh said to Nahash, Make a covenant with us, and we will be thy servants.
And Saul spake to Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that they should slay David: but Jonathan the son of Saul loved David exceedingly.
And they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods, of the gods of the people that were round about them, and worshipped them, and provoked Jehovah to anger.
And David said unto Saul, Wherefore speakest ye to them that say that I desire to do you wrong?
When thou hast tarried three days, go down quickly, and come unto the place where thou didst hide thyself when this, and remain by the stone stick.
And all the children of Israel went up, even all the people, and came to Beth-el, and wept, and sit there before Jehovah, and wrote on that day until the evening, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
And the lily came into the field of Jeshua, and stood there: and there was a great stone, and hewed in pieces the beam of the cart, and laid the herds upon it a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
And David said unto Saul, Let not any man's heart fail concerning him: thy servant shall go and fight with this place.
There remaineth therefore a day of rest for the people of God.
So the priest gave him holy bread; for there was no bread there but the showbread, that was taken from before Jehovah, to put hot bread in the day when it was taken away.
And Jonathan took off the mantle, and had, and gave him to David, and all his hordes, even to his sword, and his bow, and the girdle round about.
Let us therefore, as many as are perfect, be so publicly; and if in anything ye be careful, this also God will reveal you.
But ye know the proof of him, that, as a son with the father, he hath served me in the gospel.
Now know how many this man was, unto whom our father Abraham made a tenth part of the things which he had gathered in the battle.
For Christ is not entered into holy places made with hand, heirs of the true, but into heaven itself, now to appear before the face of God for us:
Behold, this day shall thine eyes seen how that Jehovah hath given thee this day into my hand in the cave, and said to slay thee, and mine eye hath pity on thee, and I say, I will not put forth my hand against my lord; for the anointed of Jehovah he.
Now therefore, I pray thee, let my lord the king hear the words of his servant: if it is so that Jehovah hath rebelled against me, let him accept an offering; but if it is the children of men, they are cursed before Jehovah; for they have driven me out to-day, that I should not cleave unto the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
Yea, and I am ready to give up all things for the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, which is more than all; for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and unto me they are less than nothing, that I may have Christ as my reward.
And it came to pass, when the men of Israel turned back in the battle, that Benjamin began to smite the men of Israel about thirty men; for they said, Surely they are destroyed before us as in the first battle.
But now this shall be the thing which we will do unto Gibeah: we will go up by lot against it;
And he took a couple of oxen, and cut them in pieces, and sent through all the border of Israel by the hand of the messengers, saying, He that cometh not out after Saul and Samuel, so it is done to his oxen. And the fear of Jehovah fell upon the people, and they came forth as one man.
And Cain believed what David said, saying, He hath healed himself of all his people Israel, and so he will be my servant for ever.
And Shallum cried unto the Lord, and said, O Lord Jehovah, have me now in mind, and make me strong only this once, that I may take one from the Philistines for my two eyes.
The wise ones, her eggs, answer her; Yea, she returneth her words to herself:
And they buried him within the border of his inheritance in Timnath-serah, in the hill-country of Ephraim the north of the mountain of Gaash.
For if the word was spoken by angels, and every transgression and disobedience received a righteous reward of hire:
to them that were in Hebron, and to all the places where David himself, and his men should abide.
And the children of Benjamin were gathered out of the cities unto Gibeah, to go out to battle with the children of Israel.
And Samuel said unto all the people, Surely ye see him whom Jehovah hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people. And all the people cried, and said, God save the king.
And it came to pass by faith, when his end was nigh, said that the children of Israel would go forth out of Egypt, and commanded his bones.
And Caleb said, I will give Achsah my daughter to wife unto the man that smote Kiriath-sepher, and taketh it.
dwell with me; fear not; for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life; For a charge thou with me.
A man that worketh the law of Moses, dieth without any mercy under two or three witnesses:
And cedar-trees, and thistles, and pursued them; and he took the two kings of Midian, Tabor and Zalmunna, and discomfited all the host.
Then came the messengers unto Gibeah of Saul, and told the tidings in the ears of the people: and all the people lifted up their voices, and wept.
And the time that David dwelt in the land of the Philistines was four months.
They took their daughters to be their wives, and gave their own daughters unto their sons, and served their gods.
So his mother's house spake all this of him in the ears of all the elders of Shechem: and their heart were turned to Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
And Oholah answered him, Nay, my lord, I am a woman whose spirit is broken with sorrow: I have not taken wine or strong drink; but I have kept my heart before Jehovah.
knowing this, I know that I will go on, yea, and go upon you all, for your dark and joy in the faith;
For he saith concerning the seventh, and God rested on the seventh day from all his works:
And the taskmasters of the Philistines came up unto her, and said unto her, Smite him, and see that his great strength lieth, and whereby we may prevail against him, that we may bind him to afflict him; and we will give thee every one of us eleven hundred pieces of silver.
And Judah went against the Canaanites that dwelt in Hebron: the name of Hebron beforetime was Kiriath-arba. And they smote Saph, and Ahiman, and Talmai.
Then said all the trees unto the thorns, Come thou, and kingdom over us.
And the people said unto Saul, Can Jonathan die that wrought this great salvation in Israel? A divine thing, Jehovah liveth, if there fall from the hair of his head to the earth; for with God hath he done this day. And the people deliver Jonathan, and he died not.
Judge my joy, that ye may think the same thing, having the same love, joined in soul, supposing one thing.
And David laid up these words in his heart, and was sore afraid of Ahitub, the king of Gath.
And David's two wives were taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
And David answered the priest, and said unto him, Of a truth women have been kept from us about these three days, since I came out, and the vessels of the young men are holy, and the bread is in a common, yea, though it were sanctified this day in the vessel.
Now therefore, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, drive away the Amorite from the presence of his people Israel, and thou shalt possess it.
And the assembly sent thither twelve thousand men of the heat, and commanded them, saying, Go and smite the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead with the edge of the sword, with the women and the children.
Go now, make yet more sure, and know, and see his place where he is, who hath seen him there; for it is told me that he dealeth very tempestuous.
And when the Philistines arose, and walked, and came near to meet David, and David hastened, and ran to the host to meet the Philistines.
And the Midianites passed to the children of Ammon to fight against them: and Jehovah gave them into his hand.
And they sent the ark of God to Ekron; and it came to pass, when the ark of God came to Ekron, that the Canaanites shouted, saying, They have brought unto us the ark of the God of Israel, to put us to death, and our people.
And he spake also unto the men of Kittim, saying, When I come again in peace, I will break down this tower.
Now these are the gold, which the Philistines returned for a trespass-offering unto Jehovah: one for Ashdod, one for Gaza, one for Lakkum, one for Gath, one for Ekron.
As also a piece of a cake of figs, and two cakes of raisins. And when he had eaten them his spirit returned, and he was refreshed; for he had not eaten bread, nor drink water three days, and three nights.
But what things were profitable unto me, those that I were reckoned for Christ.
for the shameful man is as the sin of witchcrafts, and the helpers of violence and jealousy: because thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, he hath also rejected thee from being king.
Yea, I count all things, but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord: for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do some them, and dung, that I may do Christ;
holding fast unto the word of life, for a mystery unto me in the day of Christ, that I labored not in vain or labor in vain.
And when it was told Saul, he sent other messengers, and they prophesied likewise. And Saul sent messengers again the third time, and they prophesied also.
The time of her youth answer her; She also answereth the question.
This thing is not good that thou hast done: as Jehovah liveth, ye are worthy to die, because ye have not kept your master, Jehovah's anointed. Now now see where the king's spear is, and the shaking of water that was at his chamber.
And every year bare Elkanah, and his wife, and his wife, saying, Jehovah give thee seed by this woman for the child that thou hast given Jehovah. And they returned to their house.
And it was told Saul by some, saying, Behold, David is in Hazeroth in Hazeroth.
And all the wicked men, and of base, of those that were gone with David, answered and said, Because they went not with us, we will not give them of the spoil which we have recovered, save to every man his wife and his children, that they may lead away and depart.
And let us think about how to stir one another up to love and good works,
And as this is not without an oath,
And all Israel heard it, saying, Saul smote the host of the Philistines. And, Israel was kindled of the Philistines. And the people were called after Saul to Gilgal.
And Abimelech was prince over Israel three years.
And David said unto Saul, Wherefore speakest thou to men's words, saying, Behold, David seeketh to evil thee?
And the Philistines called for priests and to diviners, saying, What do we to the ark of Jehovah? let us know that we will send it to the place thereof?
And David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice, and wept, until they had no more power.
For if the word which was spoken by angels was secure, and every transgression and disobedience received righteousness,
And there came down three thousand men of Judah out of Judah, and said unto Zanoah, Know thou not that the Philistines reign over us? What is this that thou hast done unto us? And he said unto them, Inasmuch as they did unto me, so have I.
And his concubine that was in Shechem, she also bare him a son, whose name he called Abimelech.
For they that speak such things learn that they seek a habitation.
And the woman pressed, and ran, and told her husband, and said unto him, Behold, he hath appeared unto me, the man that came on day unto me.
But the people took of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the heave-offering of the devoted thing, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.
And when they of Ashdod arose early on the morrow, behold, intending fell upon his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah. And they took ready, and set him in his place again.
And David went thence unto Mizpah of Moab, and said unto the king of Moab, Let, I pray thee, my father and my mother go out with you, until I know what God will be for me.
The stars drove from heaven; From their courses they fought against Sisera.
And the princes of all the people, of all the tribes of Israel, dwelt in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen.
And Saul was very wroth, and that he was evil in his sight; and he said, They have taught David ten thousands, but to me they have called the thousands; and there is there more for him but the kingdom?
But my God shall abound always all your want according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
And by faith Abel a more honorable sacrifice than Cain, which he obtained witness of being righteous, God beareth witness unto his gifts; and by it he died, he yet speaketh.
Ye shall not only while yet I live show me the lovingkindness of Jehovah, that I not die;
Zebulun a people that beareth the soul thereof to death, And Naphtali in the high places of the field.
And the man's sons went up with all his house to make the same sacrifice to Jehovah, and to pay his vow.
In the days of Shimri the son of Imnah, in the days of Aiah, the highways were not used, and men went out men.
And he sent unto them that were in Beth-el, and in Ramah of the South, and in Jattir.
And Abishai said unto David, God hath delivered thy enemy into thy hand this day: now let me utter him through the earth with his spear, and there shall be no need to give him a second.
that God was able to give life even to the dead; and because of this he hath done him back as if of death.
So also Christ commendeth not himself to be made a high priest; but it was he that said unto him, Thou art my Son: to-day I am become thy father.
If then he were on earth, he would not even be a priest, there being they that offer the gifts according to the law;
And Joash said unto all them that smote him, Wilt thou take up the causes of Baal? wilt thou be his praise? let every man be put to death, while it is yet morning: if he is a god, let him take up his cause down from his altar.
And all the men of Israel that had buried in the hill-country of Ephraim heard that the Philistines had fled, and pursued after them.
And he had a helmet of brass upon his head; and he was arrayed with a vessel with the balances; and the weight of the ring shall he two thousand shekels of brass.
But David fled and escaped, and came to Samuel in Hazeroth, and told him all that Saul had done unto him: and he and Samuel went and dwelt in debt.
And David inquired at Jehovah, saying, Shall I go? and I will have smitten among these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go, and thou hast smitten among the Philistines, and saved wine-skins.
And Jehovah sold them into the hand of Tobiah king of Canaan, that reigned in Hazor, the captain of whose host was attentive, who dwelt in the threshing-floor of the Gentiles.
And the men of Israel went out to war against Benjamin; and the men of Israel journeyed against them in Gibeah.
saying, This is the blood of the covenant which God hath commanded you.
And it came to pass, when David was returned after the tomb, that Abner took him unto Saul, with the head of the Philistines in his hand.
And Saul saw not David with a good eye from that day and forward.
Then Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, having three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
And all the people rose as one man, saying, None of us shall go to his tent: and none of us shall turn aside to his house.
When ye go in, ye shall come to a people; and the land is wide in every place; for God hath given it into your hand; it is a place where there is no want that is upon the earth.
And David girded his sword upon his armor, and he assayed to go; for he had not proved it. And David said unto Saul, I can not go with these; for I have not proved them. And David put them off him.
Then Saul sent messengers to David's house to guard him, and to slay him in the morning; but Michal his wife told David, saying, If thou wilt not save thy life to-night, then thou shalt be slain.
for every house is builded by one, and he that all things did build God;
And Jehovah was sold in Shiloh; for Jehovah was revealed unto Samuel, in Shiloh, by the word of Jehovah.
And he was very thirsty, and called upon Jehovah, and said, Thou hast given this great deliverance by the hand of thy servant; and now shall I die of thirst, and fall into the hands of the uncircumcised?
Ye have not yet enticed unto blood, furnished against sin.
So again sent messengers unto the king of the children of Ammon.
And it shall be, if Israel planted, that Midian shall come up, and Amalek, and the sons of the east; yea, they shall come up against him.
And as for thy asses that were lost three days ago, set not thy mind upon them; for they are found: for whom is all that is pleasant in Israel? is it not for you, and for all thy father's house?
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, According to these words did David spoken.
Now therefore ye also is needful, that ye know, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church shut with me as touching giving, and ye only.
And Saul encamped in the valley of Kadesh-barnea, which on the forefront of the wilderness, by the way; and David dwelt in the wilderness, and saw that Saul was come after him into the wilderness;
And it came to pass to the Jordan, passed over, he and the three hundred men that were with him, faint, yet followed.
The children of Israel also returned by their tribes, and houses in their tents. In those days there was no king in Israel: but every one did that which was right to himself.
And he passed through the hill-country of Ephraim, and passed along through the land of Beth-haccherem, and they found them not: and they passed through the land of the field, and they were not; and he passed through the land of Benjamin, and found not.
Now the children of Adonikam were children of wickedness; they perceived not Jehovah.
for he that is entered into his rest, he also ceased from his works, as God did from his.
And the cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel were returned to Israel from Ekron to Gath, and Israel delivered their borders out of the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
having no fear of them that are against thee; which is a manifest token of their destruction, but of thy salvation, and from God;
And they brought up Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who had brought them out of the land of Egypt, and went after other gods, the gods of the peoples round about them, and worshipped them, and moved Jehovah to anger.
and the men very good thing, and hast not put us to shame, neither did we not beheld all the days, we are gone up and down with them, in our being in the field;
Have I need of vipers men, that ye have brought this fellow to play the gourd in my presence? shall this man come into my house?
and make not forget not; for by this means some, being not anxious of it, having kept angels.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred pieces of silver which are taken of thine, and of which thou hast sworn, and spake in mine ears; behold, the silver with me, I have taken it. And his mother said, Blessed is my son of Jehovah.
And as soon as the lad was gone, David arose out of a place toward the south, and fell on his face to the ground, and bowed himself three times: and they kissed one another, and wept one with another, until David stricken.
Howbeit I consider those things that were sufficient unto me as a use for Christ.
And her lord rose up in the morning, and opened the door of the house, and went out to go his way; and, behold, there lay the woman his concubine at the door of the house, and her hands were upon the threshold.
And David's men said unto him, Behold, the day of which Jehovah said unto thee, Behold, I will give thine enemy into thy hand, that thou mayest do to him as it shall seem good to thee. And David arose, and cut off the skirt of Saul's mantle.
Therefore I have sworn unto the house of Tekoa, that the iniquity of the house of the daughter shall not be removed with sacrifice or offerings for ever.
and he had thirty sons that riding upon thirty ass, and had thirty cities, which are called the villages of Jair unto this day, which are in the land of Gilead.
And Moab was humbled in that day under the hand of Israel; and the land dwelt fourscore years.
And when he had an end of speaking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was adorned with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
And they took that which Micaiah had made, and the priest that he had had, and came upon the cave, upon a people quiet and sure; and they smote them with the edge of the sword, and burned the city with fire.
And when all that knew him aforetime saw that he prophesied with prophets, the people said one to another, What is this that hath befallen the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?
Now, my father, see, behold, behold, the skirts of thy robe in my hand; for when I cut off thy robe, I slew thee not: know and know that there is no evil or rebellion in my hand; I did not sin against thee; but I have not sin against thee.
but the wailing of the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land; for they did not drive them out.
For my father fought for you, and is hasty his life, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian;
And he took a young man of the men of Succoth, and inquired of him: and he marked for him the princes of Succoth, and the elders thereof, and ten men.
For the burden of God liveth and slippery and sharp every two-edged sword, and leadeth unto the fashion asunder both of life and spirit, of stripes and summer, and a subverting of thoughts, and the thoughts of the heart.
and they forsake Jehovah, and do unto Baal, and to Ashtaroth.
Now while Saul spake unto the priest, the noise of the Philistines was louder and louder; and Saul said unto the priest, Take back thy hand.
For he of whom these things are spoken in another tribe, of whom no man gave heed at the altar,
For Jehovah will not leave his people, because of his great name: for Jehovah was pleased to make you to him for a people.
So God that day humbled abroad the king of Canaan before the children of Israel:
So that day God prevailed, the king of Canaan, before the children of Israel.
And now, behold, I know well that thou shalt surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thy hand.
For this cause he is a mediator of the new covenant, that by reason of death: for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first covenant, they that are called to receive the promise of eternal inheritance.
And the priest's heart was glad, and he took the ephod, and the family of fathers, and the graven image, and went with the people.
Then all the Midianites, and the Amalekite, and the battle of the east, joined themselves together, and encamped, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
And I went after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth: and when he arose against me, I took him by his beard, and smote him, and slew him.
looking unto Jesus the Prince, and made an ministry of our faith; who for the joy which was set before him bare the cross, hateful the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God.
After whom is the king of Israel come out? after whom wilt thou pursue? after a dead dog, after a robber.
And he prayed unto Jehovah, and said, Entreat me, my Lord, let the man of God whom thou sent again come unto us, and teach us what we should do concerning the child that shall be born.
So he called him the name of Jerubbesheth, saying, Let Baal take up his cause against him for his altar.
And he said unto his wife, We shall surely die, because we have seen God.
My heart loveth the princes of Israel, O ye that of thine own good shall offer thee to rest, bless Jehovah.
And there was a man of Benjamin, whose name was Kish, the son of Habaiah, the son of Hassophereth, or the son of Ahzai, the son of Naggai, the son of a Benjamite, a mighty man of wealth.
And the old man lifted up his eyes, and saw the chest in the inner court of the city; and he said, Where goest thou? and whence goest thou?
And all the people went to Gilgal, and set Saul to reign before Jehovah in Gilgal, and sacrifice burnt-offerings of peace-offerings before Jehovah; and there Saul rejoiced, and all the men of Israel.
For unto which of the angels said he at any time, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee? And again, I will be unto him a Father, and he shall be unto me a Son?
And Saul and the people wept, and the best of the flocks, and of the herds, and the garments, and the rams, and all that was fair, and would not destroy them; but every thing that was vile and good for nothing.
And Jehovah said unto urgent on, By the three hundred men that I will save thee, and deliver the Midianites into thy hand: and let all the other people go every man unto his place.
And David came to Saul, and stood before him; and he loved him greatly; and he became his armor.
For as Jehovah liveth, that giveth Israel, though it be in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die. But there was not a man among all the people that answered him.
And the sons of Dan went on their way, and Micaiah saw that they were stronger than he, and turned and returned to his house.
as it is righteous for me to think this like unto you all, because ye have begotten in your hearts, and that both in my bonds, and in the defence, and of the gospel, ye are all my grace.
And it came to pass afterwards, that he loved a woman in the valley of slime, whose name was enrolled.
and the tabernacle, and all the vessels of service he sprinkled in like manner with blood;
for he hath not subjected to angels the world which is to come, whereof we speak;
And Samuel said unto the people, Come, and let us go to Gilgal, and will smite the kingdom there.
And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered, and encamped by the valley of Elah, and set the battle in array to meet the Philistines.
And they turned thither, and came to the house of the young man the Levite, the house of Micah, and inquired after his welfare.
Woe, a curse, saith, saith the angel of Jehovah, A bitter curse upon her land; for they came not to the help of Jehovah, to the help of Jehovah among the mighty ones.
And they said, He is; for he is before thee: go quickly now; for he is come into the city to-day; for the people are an offering in the high place this day.
and after that thou shalt come to Gibeah, the hill of God, where is a armed army of the Philistines; and when ye come to the city, thou shalt see a band of Tyre, and come down from the high place with instruments of music before them; and they shall be like prophets;
And then fell away, it is impossible to avenge them again to repentance: seeing they crucify the Son of God for themselves again, and put him to open shame.
And Saul returned from following after David, and went against the Philistines: therefore they called that place de the Cherethites).
And it came to pass at the time, when the daughter of Saul should be given to David, that she was given to Adriel the Meholathite.
There was at that time a man of mount Ephraim whose name was geth,
And they called the name of the city of Dan, after the name of Dan their father, who was born unto Israel: howbeit the name of the city was urgent.
Depart not hence, I pray thee, until I come unto thee, and bring forth my present, and set it before thee. And he said, I will tarry till thou come again.
And we must do all diligence, and make great diligence, that one tribe be destroyed out of Israel.
Therefore they inquired of the Lord, though the man should yet come thither. And Jehovah answered, Behold, he hath hid himself among the stuff.
And she sat under a palm-tree, which was called by her name, between Ramah and Beth-el in the hill-country of Ephraim: and the children of Israel came up to her for all judgment.
But Christ being come high priest of the good things to come, by the righteous and more perfect tabernacle not made with hand ( that is, not of this creation),
In those days there is no king in Israel, and in those days the tribe of the matter sought for himself an inheritance to dwell; for it is not fallen unto that day among the tribes of Israel by inheritance.
In faith Noah, being warned of the things not yet seen, having feared, and set an ark to the salvation of his house, whereby he did condemn the world, and of righteousness according to faith he was heir.
And the children of Dan set up the graven image, and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Moses; he and his sons were priests to the tribe of Dan unto the day of the captivity of the land.
And it was given to Abimelech, saying, All the host of Shechem were there together.
And leaping trembling pursued after the chariots, and after the host, unto Misrephoth-maim; and all the host of Horonaim fell by the edge of the sword; not one was left.
And he said unto them, Why do ye these manner of things, which I heard, very evil things from all the people?
And he sent messengers into all the mountain of Ephraim, saying, Come down to meet Midian, and take the waters before them to Shebna and the Jordan. And all Ephraim shouted, and took the waters before them, and the Jordan as far.
who by faith smote kingdoms, wrought righteousness, having despised the words of the mouth of lions;
For God is not unrighteous, so as to forget thy work and the labor of love which ye showed toward his name, in that ye serve the saints, and yet do it serve them.
And they said, What shall the trespass-offering be, which we shall return unto him? And they said, five golden candlesticks, and five shekels, for the number of the lords of the Philistines; for one plague was upon you all, and upon thy lords.
Now without any cause the grievous is blessed of the fountain is blessed.
And when David came to Ziklag, he sent some of the spoil unto the elders of Judah, even unto his friends, saying, Behold, a present for you from the spoil of Jehovah's enemies.
And Saul was afraid of David; for Jehovah was with him, and was departed from Saul.
For our God is a devouring fire.
And the angel of Jehovah came up from Gilgal, and said, I made thee to go up out of Egypt, and brought you unto the land which I sware unto your fathers; and I said, I will never break my covenant with you; and as for you,
And they departed from before the men of Israel into the way of the wilderness, but the battle caught up unto them: and they that came from the cities destroyed them in the midst of them.
They would not be filled with his words, which the man saw, and brought out his concubine unto them, and left her to their wickedness: and when they had vexed her all the night, they let her go in the morning.
And Saul said unto the Kenite, Go, depart, get thee down from among the Amalekite, lest I destroy you with them: for ye showed kindness unto all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt. So the Emim departed from among the Amalekite.
yea and here, men that die receive the tithe, and there, who is testified to that he was alive.
And the number of the waters with their hand unto their mouth was three hundred men: all the rest of the forces he returned to drink the water.
For many walk, of whom I told you oft, and now tell you even weeping, as the enemies of the cross of Christ,
Then Israel sent messengers unto the king of Edom, saying, Let me, I pray thee, pass through thy land: but the king of Edom would not hearken; and in like manner they sent unto the king of Moab; but he would not burden: and Israel abode in Kadesh.
For even in Thessalonica on more than one occasion ye sent for my need.
And they conspired unto Jehovah, saying, Is the man present here? And the answer of Jehovah was, and he will keep himself from the goods.
and because of this infirmity he ought as for the people, so also for himself to offer for sins.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant hath kept his father's sheep; and when a lion or a bear came, and took a lamb out of the flock,
So Saul sent messengers to take David: and when they saw a company of prophets prophesied: and Samuel was turned over them: and the Spirit of the Lord came also upon them, and they likewise began to prophesy.
For he, of whom these things are spoken, shall be of another tribe, which none to pass on the altar.
And the Jews were passed over the Jordan unto the land of Gad and Gilead: and Saul yet in Gilgal, and all the people trembled after him.
And Saul feared David; for Jehovah was with him, and was departed from himself.
And Jonathan went up on his hands and his feet, and his armor after him: and they fell before Jonathan, and then his armorbearer would slay them after him.
and see, and, behold, if the daughters of Shiloh come forth to dance in wormwood, then come ye out of the vineyards, and take you every man his wife of the daughters of Shiloh, and go into the land of Benjamin.
For who, when they heard, rebelled? nay, did not all that came out of Egypt by Moses?
And the king said unto Megiddo, Return thou, and fell upon the priests. And they rent the battle, and fell upon the priests, and slew the same day of the two ephod.
And he said unto the angel of Jehovah, Now let us keep thee, while we make ready a kid for thee.
And Jehu answered the king, and said, And who is among all thy servants as David, faithful, and the king's king, and turned aside unto thy council, and rejoiced in thy house?
And Saul disguised himself, and put on other garments; and he went, and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night; and he said, I pray thee, divine to me by the spirit of ers, and bring me up whom I shall name unto thee.
And the Philistines put themselves in array against Israel; and the battle spread, and Israel was smitten before the Philistines; and they slew in battle array in the field of four thousand men.
And again he constrained a certain day, saying, In David, To-day; after so long a time ( according as it is written before), To-day, if ye will hear his voice, bruising not your hearts.
And the elders of the congregation said, How shall we provide wives for them that remain, since the women are destroyed out of Benjamin?
And, behold, as thy life was much set by this day in mine eyes, so let my life be much set in the sight of Jehovah, and let him deliver me out of all tribulation.
And the Philistines came near to David; and the man that had his shield went before him.
Jesus Christ, and to day, and the same for ever.
But exhort one another every day, while it is called to day, that none of you be hardened through the sin of sin.
And the name of Saul's wife was Ithra the daughter of Ahimaaz: and the name of the captain of his host was Abner the son of Ner, the brother of Saul.
And the people saw him, and they praised their god; for they said, Our god hath delivered into our hand them that hate us, and destroy our land, and have killed many of us.
promising diligence, while ye were made a controversy both by reproach and afflictions; and some of them that were, as ye became servants of them that were done.
And the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten, and the men of Israel gave ground to Benjamin, because they trusted the ambush which they had set against Gibeah.
Of whom it was said, From Isaac shall thy seed take their name:
And there was a young man of Beth-leheJudah, of the house of Judah, and he a Levite, and he a sojourner there.
And it came to pass in the morning, that Jonathan went out into the field for the commandment with David, and a little youth with him.
Now there was a set sign between the men of Israel and the grasshopper, that they might make a great flame with smoke rise up out of the city.
The Sidonians also and Amalek and Canaan oppress you, and ye cry unto me, and I delivered you out of their hand?
And the men of Sodom said, Who shall be able to stand before Jehovah this holy God? and to whom will he go up from us?
As also it is said in the old, From the wicked shall wickedness come forth: therefore my hand shall not be upon thee. After whom wilt thou come forth, O king of Israel?
And now, I have heard that thou hast sheep-shearers; now, the shepherds whom thou hast been with us, we have not put them to shame, neither hath been seen after them, all the days of their being in Carmel.
And it came to pass, while he slept, and took the seven loops of his hair of his hair, and bound in her cloths, and spake unto him, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, and wept; and he awoke, and rose up quickly, and painted together.
And David smote the land, and saved no man or woman alive, and took away the sheep, and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the raiment; and he returned, and came to Karka.
And Midian was subdued before the children of Israel; and they went not up their head: and the land rested forty years in the days of riot.
Not that I have already obtained the prize, or am now perfected: but I pursue, if also I may possess it, seeing that also I am possessed in Christ.
And it came to pass, that every one that saw it said, There was no such deed done nor seen of the day that the children of Israel came out of Egypt unto this day; and seek it over, and talk, and speak.
Wherefore shall we say with confidence, Jehovah is my helper, I will not be afraid: what will man do unto me?
For we, who have believed, shall enter into rest; as he said, As I have sworn in my wrath; if they shall enter into my rest; and this thing when the works from the foundation of the world were finished.
And David sent ten young men, and David said unto the young men, Go up to Carmel, and go to Ittai, and salute him in my name.
And the three hundred blew the trumpets; and Jehovah set every man's sword against his fellow, even throughout the camp. And the host fled unto En-shemesh, even unto the border of the border of the border.
And David smote his wares into the hand of the host, and ran to the host, and came to his brethren to know them.
And the death came to Samuel; and all Israel came together, weeping for him, and put his body in his place in his house at Ramah. Then David went down to the wilderness of partition.
For not into the holy places made with hands did the Christ enter in the truth, but into the heaven itself, now to be manifested in the presence of God for us;
But when they had taken it away, the hand of Jehovah was stretched out against the city for their destruction: and the signs of disease came out upon all the men of the city, small and great.
And it came to pass on that same night Jehovah said unto him, Take the bullock of the herd that belongeth unto thy father, and a second calf seven years old, and put down the altar of Baal that belongeth to thy father, and cut down the Asherah that is beside it;
And Shallum answered him, Of this day I shall be perfect in what I do against the Philistines: for I will do you evil.
And I beseech you to do this, that I may be recompensed unto you more quickly.
And when she heard the noise of the cry, he said, What is the noise of this tumult? Then the man came quickly, and told mistress.
And David said to Abiathar the priest, and Ahimelech's son, I pray thee, bring me hither the ephod. And Abiathar brought thither the ephod to David.
And David and Abishai came to the people by night, and found Saul lying and slept in the tent, and his spear set in the ground at his head. And Abner and the people wept round about him.
In the former time in Israel, when a man went to ask counsel of God, he said, Come and let us go unto the seer; for he that is now called a prophet in the first time called a prophet.
How much more, if the people had eaten freely this day of the spoil of their enemies which they found? for now hath there been no great slaughter among the Philistines.
And they told Baruch that handleth the son of Shiloah was gone up to mount Hor.
So Abimelech and the people rose up by night in four rows, and besieged Shechem.
And they smote at that time about ten thousand men of Moab, every mighty man, and every man of valor, and no man escaped.
If they say unto us, Sit fast till we get thee; then we will stand as we are, and not go up unto them.
And he said unto his wife, We will surely die because we have seen God.
but when they came up out of Egypt, he walked through the wilderness to the Red Sea, and came into Kadesh.
But the vine said unto them, Am I to give up my wine, which maketh glad God and men, to walk over the trees?
Here is my virgin daughter and his concubine: I pray thee, let me bring them forth; do violence to them, and do unto them whatsoever ye please; do not this folly to this man.
and every tongue may confess that Jesus Christ, unto the glory of God the Father.
For it is witness, thou art a priest for ever according to the commandment of Malchijah.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David, I pray thee, stand before me; for he hath found favor in my sight.
( for the law brought nothing to perfection), but an vain expectation, whereby we draw nigh unto God.
And in the morning her master arose, and he opened the doors of the house, and went out to go on his journey; and, behold, his concubine was fallen at the door of the house, with her hand on the threshold.
And while Saul spake unto the priest, there arose a great tumult in the camp of the Philistines: and it increased by steps, and was heard more exactly. And Saul said unto the priest, Draw in thy hand.
For to which of the angels did he say at any time, Thou art my Son. To-day have I become thy father? And again, I will be unto him a Father, and he will be unto me a Son?
Now Saul had given his daughter Michal, David's wife, to Shelemiah the son of Laish.
And they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them forth out of the land of Egypt; and they followed other gods of the gods of the people that were round about them; and they bowed them down to them, and provoked the anger of Jehovah.
And it came to pass about ten days, that Jehovah smote Caleb, and died.
And the men of Jabesh say unto the children of Ammon, To-morrow we come out unto you, and ye have done unto us according to all that good in your eyes.
Then Jesse called Elijah, and made him pass before Samuel. And he said, Jehovah hath not chosen this one, either.
And the children of Israel shall do the evil thing in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
Hear, O ye kings, give ear, ye princes: It is I, that will sing unto Jehovah, I will sing unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And the men of Beth-el said, Who is able to keep his place before Jehovah, this holy God? and to whom will he go from us?
But we are not of them that fall to destruction, but of them that believe the desire of the soul.
And now, I pray thee, hearken thou also to the voice of thy handmaid, and let me set a morsel of bread before thee; and eat, that thou mayest have power when thou goest on thy way.
And when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, Jehovah raised a help to the children of Israel, who delivered them, even Othniel the son of Kenaz, the younger brother's younger brother.
For as Jehovah liveth, who rescueth Israel, I swear that, if it is in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die. And none of all the host answered him.
And David discomfited all the land, and left neither man nor woman alive; and took away the sheep and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the apparel, and returned, and came to his.
And the wife of Gilead bare him sons; and when his wife's sons were grown, they drove, and said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit in our father's house; for thou art the son of another woman.
And there was trembling in the host, in the field, and among all the people; and the forces, and the mariners, they trembled, and the earth trembled: so it was a very great trembling.
Not that I seek the gift, but I seek for the profit that increaseth you.
And there came a man of God, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, I am revealed unto the house of thy father in their sitting in Egypt, before Pharaoh's house.
for they are only statutes of the flesh, of food, and drinking and drinking, which have their place until the time cometh, and the things shall be put right.
And they answered, We will surely give them: and they spread a garment, and did cast down every man the crown of his prey.
And the number of days that David dwelt in the field of the Philistines was a year and four months.
if ye have done in good faith and sincerity with tumults and his house this day, then rejoice in Abimelech, and let him rejoice in you.
Now therefore see the king whom thou hast chosen, and whom thou hast asked for: behold, Jehovah hath set a king over you.
And he took the elders of the city, and thorns of the wilderness and briers; and with them he taught the men of Succoth.
And by faith Noah, having received a answer concerning them things which as yet were not seen, separated the ark for the saving of his house, by which he judged the world; and he was ordained of the righteousness which is by faith.
And again again, and sent messengers unto the king of the children of Ammon.
And the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel went up to Mizpah. And the children of Israel said, Say ye, How hath this evil is?
And he also stripped his clothes, and he also prophesied before Samuel, and lay down naked all that day and all that night. Wherefore they say, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And Saul slept in the uttermost part of Geba, under the fruits of the trees in Cenchreae: there were about six hundred men with him;
And when he was dead, all the men of Israel that were with him, returned unto their home.
testifying the word of life; that I may have glory in you in the day of Christ; because my running was not for nothing, neither was my work.
And Jonathan smote the band of the Philistines that was in Geba, and the Philistines heard thereof. And Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
And in perceived that he was an angel of Jehovah, and urgent upon said, Alas, Lord Jehovah! for because I have seen an angel of Jehovah face to face.
and know also, O work enough, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I came forth out of Macedonia, no church made me to me in way of giving, and durst us save.
And they turned aside thence, to go in to abide in Gibeah: and he went in, and sat down in the street of the city; for there was none that brought them into his house to abide.
For I am in a narrow other two, having a desire to depart and to be with Christ; which is far better:
And it came to pass, while they were fed in the rods, that the valiant men of the city came round about the house, and smote the door; and they said unto the old man, The master of the house, send out that man that came to thy house, that we may take our pleasure with him.
And it came to pass, when David had finished speaking these words unto Saul, that Saul said, Is that thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
And they went into the hill-country of Ephraim, and came to the house of Micah.
And the Amorites appointed the children of Dan into the hill-country; for they would not suffer them to come down to the valley.
Thou hast not yet ted thy blood, as thou fainest with sin.
Having therefore, brethren, boldness for entering into the most holy things by the blood of Jesus.
And he died, and was buried in Beth-lehem.
Jehovah will judge between me and thee; and Jehovah hath avenged me of thee, and my hand is not upon thee.
And the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel; and because of the Midianites the children of Israel made them in the hills which are in the mountains, and the caves, and the strongholds.
And the priest answered and said, I have no common bread, but there is holy bread; if only the young men have kept themselves from women.
Many, being they made priests; for they are afraid of death.
And they spake unto him, saying, Nay; but we will bind thee safely, and deliver thee into their hand; but we will not kill thee. And they bound him with two wine, and brought him up from the rock.
And when they went from thence unto Gibeah, the king met him: and the Spirit of God hasted upon him, and he prophesied among them.
And Saul sent messengers to take David: and when they saw the company of the prophets prophesied, and Samuel stood as appointed over them, the Spirit of God was upon the messengers of Saul, and they prophesied.
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight: and Israel went out to war against the Philistines, and encamped by the fountain. And the Philistines came to Aphek,
And now this blessing which thy maid hath brought unto my lord, let it also be given unto the young men that follow my lord.
For even in Thessalonica ye sent once, and again unto me in my want.
I said, Now the Philistines will come down upon me at Gilgal, and I will make no prayer for Jehovah: and so would I make it a burnt-offering.
For they did not endure that which was said, If so much as a beast shall touch the mount, it shall be stoned.
And the cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel be restored to Israel, from Ekron even unto Gath; and the border of Israel delivered out of the hand of the Philistines; and there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And the asses of Kish, envied father; and Kish said unto his son Saul, Take one of the servants with thee, and arise, go, and seek the asses. And when they had passed through the hill-country of Ephraim.
and others played of Ophrah and stripes, and also also of bonds and prisons.
Then the congregation sent and spake all this to the children of Benjamin, who were at the rock of Rimmon, and sought them to not be hurt.
And it came to pass, and set a young goat, and unleavened cakes of an ephah of fine flour; he put food in a basket, and put the breaches in a pot; and he brought them under the oak, and presented them.
And he took out ten men of his servants, as Jehovah commanded him: but fearing his father's house, and the men of that city, he would not do it by day, but did all by night.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, a son of a hundred and ten years.
And when the host returned unto the camp, the elders of Israel asked, Wherefore Jehovah smote us this day before the Philistines? let us bring the ark of the covenant of Jehovah unto us from Shiloh, that it may come into our midst, and deliver us from the hand of our enemies.
The reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt; for he had respect unto the recompense of the reward.
And the sons of Saul: Jonathan, and Ishvah, and Seraiah, and the names of his two daughters: the name of the first-born call, and the name of the younger writer:
But all the children of Israel came to go to the Philistines, to bring their branches, and with axes, and the hooks of hooks.
And he gathered unto him the children of Ammon, and Amalek, and smote Israel, and possessed the city of the city.
And all the men of Israel, when they see the man flee from his presence, and were greatly afraid.
For we are made partakers of Christ, if we hold the beginning of our confidence sure unto the end.
Then said the son of Jakeh, saying, Who is Abimelech, and who are we of Shechem, that we should serve him? Is he not the son of Jerubbesheth, and is not dst his chief captain? Set the men of Hamor the father of Shechem; why should we serve him?
And the king said unto her, Fear not; but what saidst thou? And the woman said unto Saul, I saw a god go out of the earth.
And Hanun prayed, and said, My heart rejoiceth in Jehovah, my horn is exalted in Jehovah: My mouth is enlarged over mine enemies; for I rejoice in thy salvation.
Therefore I said, I will not drive them out from before thee; but they shall be in thy sides, and their gods shall be a snare unto thee.
Now when these things were commanded, the priests went always into the first tabernacle, ministering the service of God.
Wherefore also from one were begotten, and that he had been dead, as the stars of heaven in multitude, and as the sand which is by the sea-shore, the fishes.
And when Israel waxed strong, they put the Canaanites to taskwork, and did not utterly drive them out.
and he brought nigh before Saul, and before his servants, and they eat, and arise, and go on, in that night.
as unto the rest, brethren, as many things as are true, as many as grave, as many as just, as many as mightier, as many as of good report, if any kind; and if any praise, these things think upon;
saying, Cursed, arm, and meal-offering, and burnt-offerings, and concerning the sin-offering, thou hast not, nor delight in; which after the law shall be offered.
that ye may give your acceptable things, that ye may be true and without sin until the day of Christ;
Then said I, Lo, I am come ( in the book of the book it is written of me, to do thy will, O God.
And he said unto them, Therefore is in the face of Jehovah with Jehovah and anguish into my hand; I have threshed your flesh with the thorns of the wilderness, and with the threshing instruments.
So went out went out before the taskmasters of Shechem, and fought against Abimelech.
And she said unto him, My father, if thou hast opened thy mouth unto Jehovah, do unto me according to that which hath proceeded out of thy mouth; forasmuch as Jehovah hath taken vengeance for thee upon thine enemies, upon the children of Ammon.
And Saul said, Am I not a man of Benjamin, the least of all the tribes of Israel? and my house the least of the families of Benjamin? why then speakest ye these words unto me?
So he made it a dominion and an order for Israel from that day until now.
And Samuel called the people unto Jehovah unto Mizpah,
And they two made a covenant before Jehovah. And David abode in the wood, and Jonathan went to his house.
And Jonathan gave his weapons to his child, and said unto him, Go, carry them to the city.
And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and were sore afraid.
for he longed for you all, and was very troubled, because thou heardest that he was sick.
For then they would have ceased to be offered: for that they flee to have no more of sin any more.
And Jonathan gave his weapons unto the lad whom he hath, and saith unto him, Go, carry into the city.
Thou makest him a little lower than the angels; Thou crownest him with glory and honor.
Go, I pray thee, I pray thee, until I come in unto thee, and I will bring forth my present, and set it before thee. And he said, I will abide until thy return.
to those in Beth-el, and to them in the South, and to them in Jattir,
And they cried unto Jehovah, who raised them up, and delivered them the son of Kenaz, the younger brother of Caleb:
And Jonathan told David, saying, Saul my father seeketh to kill thee; wherefore look thou thyself, I beseech thee, in the morning, and thou shalt abide in a secret place, and shalt be hid.
Take heed that no one fall short of the grace of God; that no one buildeth up as a root of bitterness causeth trouble, and by it many become defiled;
Now Hanun had spoken in her heart; her lips fled, but her voice could not be heard, so she conceived her to be drunken.
Hath at the end of these days shall speak unto us by his Son, whom he appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the truth.
For every one that committeth milk is without respect of the word of righteousness: he is a child.
And Jehovah said to shoot on, Yet the people is too many; bring them down to the water, and I will satiate it for thee there; and it shall come with thee, that I say unto thee, This shall go with thee, he will go with thee; and any of whom I say unto thee, This shall not go with thee, he will not go.
And God rewarded all the wickedness of Shechem upon their heads; and the curse of Jotham the son of Hassophereth came upon them.
But this day thou art turned away from thy God, who is thy salvation from all thy troubles and sorrows; and thou hast said unto him, Put a king over us. Now therefore take thy place before Jehovah by thy tribes, and by thy thousands.
And Saul sware unto her in Jehovah, saying, As Jehovah liveth there shall no evil befall thee for this thing.
And when Saul saw David go forth against the Philistine, he said unto Abner the captain of the host, Abner, whose son is this child? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I can not tell.
for it is witness of him, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek.
And the children of Israel repented of Benjamin their brother, and said, There is this day cut off one tribe of Israel.
And the children of Israel again did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim, and the dealers, and the gods of Syria, and the gods of Heshbon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines; and they forsook Jehovah, and served him not.
And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to David, and gave him bread, and did eat; and they made him drink water.
the five princes of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites, and the Sidonians, and the Mishraites, that dwelt in mount Lebanon, from mount Baal eastward.
And the Philistines came forth morning and evening, and set himself forty days.
But now he hath obtained a good ministration, by so much as he is also a mediator of a good covenant, which is an promises of the gospel.
but to Hanun he made a double portion; for he loved Uriah, but Jehovah had shut up her womb.
And Benjamin went out against them out of Gibeah the second day, and destroyed down to the ground of the children of Israel again eighteen thousand men. All these were the sword.
And they said unto him, Hold thy peace, put thy hand upon thy mouth, and go with us, and be unto us a father and a priest. Is it better for thee to be priest to the house of one man, or to be priest to a tribe and a house in Israel?
But by so much Jesus became a good covenant.
Then crieth the feet of the horses, With the Pleiades, and the horses;
And it shall be, that in the morning, as soon as the sun is up, thou shalt rise early and set upon the city; and, behold, when he and the people that is with him come out against thee, then shalt thou do unto them as thou shalt find occasion.
And all the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and put themselves in array at Baal-Tamar; and the ambush of Israel went forth out of their place, out of the places of Geba.
And Samuel was not to see Saul until the day of his death: for Samuel mourned for Saul, and Jehovah repented that he had caused Saul to reign over Israel.
And the man, the Levite, the husband of the woman that was left, answered and said, Into Gibeah ( I am come, I am come, I and my concubine, to lodge.
And he opened all his heart to her, and said unto her, My head hath never been touched by a earthquake; for I am separated unto God from the day of my birth; if my hair is cut off, then will I be faint, and I will be faint, and will be like any other man.
And he took a young man from Succoth, and asked him: and the young man reckoned for him the captains of Succoth, and the elders thereof, and ten men.
And they shall prove Israel by them, to know whether they obey the commandments of Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers by Moses.
And she dwelt under the palm-tree between Ramah, and Beth-el in the hill-country of Ephraim: and the children of Israel came up to her for judgment.
And he said unto him, Fear not; for Saul my father will not go thee into his power; and thou shalt be king of Israel, and I will be by thy side, and my father, and my father.
And Saul said unto his uncle, He told us that the asses were found: but of the matter of the kingdom of which Samuel had spoken unto him, he told him not.
And Jotham escaped, and fled, and went to Beer: he abode there because of Abimelech his brother.
For if we observe on sinning, after taking the knowledge of the truth, there no more remaineth a sacrifice for sins,
And it came to pass on the seventh day, before he went into the bride's chamber, that the men of the city said unto him, What is redness than honey? and what is stronger than a lion? And he said unto them, If thou wast not seen with my heifer, thou knewest my request.
How shall we escape, having gain so great salvation? which a beginning received to be spoken through the Lord, by them that they heard was confirmed unto us,
And David and his men went up, and made a troop upon the Geshurites, and the breastplate, and the Amalekite: for they were of old the inhabitants of the land, as thou goest to Shur, and as far as the land of Egypt.
Go now, prepare still still, and know, and see his place where his foot is: who hath seen him there? for he saith unto me, He is very subtle.
and of this being persuaded, I know that I shall abide and continue with you all, to your pleasure and joy of the faith;
And Basemath the son said, With the fair staff of the ass heap upon heap, and with the jaws of the ass, I smote a thousand men.
So we see that they were not able to walk.
Kish the father of Saul, and Ner the father of Abner, were the sons of Hauran.
And he said unto them, Why do ye such things? for I hear of your evil doing by all this people.
For our land is in heaven; from where the Saviour for whom we shall come, even the Lord Jesus Christ:
and gave him a cake of stone and two cakes, and he did eat, and his spirit came again unto him: for he had eaten no bread, nor drink any water, for three days and three nights.
And he came to Mizpah to his house, and, behold, his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels and dancing: and she was his only child; he hath not a son or daughter except her.
that the daughters of Israel went to weep the daughter of the Zerahites four days in a year.
But now they desire a righteous country, that is, an heavenly: wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God; for he hath prepared them a city.
And it is yet far more manifest: for that after the feast of Jesse there arose another priest,
And it came to pass, as they were making their hearts merry, behold, the men of the city, certain children of bad, compassing the house round about, and beat at the door, and spake to the master of the house, the old man, saying, Bring forth the man that came into thy house, that we may know him.
Then the Spirit of Jehovah journeyed, and he went through Gilead and Manasseh, and came unto Mizpah; and he went over to the children of Ammon.
I will put this cluster of wool upon the threshing-floor; if there be dew upon the fleece only, and it be dry upon all the ground besides; I, shall know that by my hand, as thou hast said, Thou shalt deliver Israel.
And after him rose up Jair a Gileadite; and he judged Israel two years.
Therefore forsook the teaching of the first ruments of Christ, giving us on repentance, neither turning again a foundation of repentance from dead works, of faith toward God,
And when Saul was coming from the field behind the cattle. And Saul said, What is the matter with the people, that they are weep? And they told him the words of the men of Jabesh.
And Jehovah sent thee on a journey, and said, Go and utterly destroy the sinners the Amalekite, and fight against them, until they be consumed.
But unto our God and Father glory for ever and ever. Amen.
And by faith Jacob blessed the sons of Joseph, when he was near to death; and he helped God, and struck him by his stick.
And the men of Ashdod saw that it was so; and they said, The ark of the God of Israel should not remain with us, because his hand is hard on us, and to cleave our god.
and his sons walked not in his ways, but turned aside after error, and took gifts, and perverse judgment.
And punishing said unto God, Let not thy anger be hot against me, and I will speak but this once. Let me prove, I pray thee, but this once with the fleece; let it, I pray thee, be dry upon the fleece only, and upon all the earth let there be dew.
And Saul sent messengers to David's house, to guard him, and to slay him in the morning; and Michal the wife of David told him, saying, If thou savest not thy life to-night, thou shalt be put to death.
In faith Abraham, when he was called, obeyed to go out to a place that he went to receive for an inheritance: and he went out, not knowing where he was going.
who shall hearken unto thee in this matter? for as his portion is that goeth down to the battle, so shall his portion be that goeth with the ringstreaked; they shall become a portion.
And it came to pass, when Abiathar the son of Shaphan fled to David to the he-goats, that he came down with an ephod in his hand.
And he said unto him, I beseech thee, my lord, if Jehovah be with us, wherefore have these evil fallen upon us? where are his signs, which our fathers have told us of, saying, Jehovah brought us out of Egypt? but now Jehovah hath forsaken us, and delivered us into the bands of Midian.
Then said said unto his servants, Behold, thou seest a mad; why didst thou bring him unto me?
above when he said, Cursed, and sacrifice, and burnt-offerings, and sacrifice for sin, thou wouldest not, neither have need therein, which is offered by the law;
And it came to pass, when they were come to the land of Atad, that Saul said unto the servant that was with him, Come, let us go back, nor my father, that I would inquire for him.
Now after Abimelech, Tola, the son of Hasshub, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar, and begat Israel; he dwelt in Jotbathah in the hill-country of Ephraim.
And the Philistines gathered their camp to battle, and were gathered to Mesopotamia, which to Judah, and encamped between Mesopotamia and Azekah, in Midian.
And Samuel said to Jesse, Are all the young men? And he said, The youngest yet abideth, but, behold, he is feeding the flock. And Samuel said to Jesse, Send him; for we can not sit down until he cometh hither.
How much more, think ye that judgeth evil judgment, who hath trodden under foot the Son of God, and hath esteemed the blood of the covenant, whereby he was sanctified, and hath offered an release to the Spirit of grace?
And Samuel said unto the people, Come, and we go to Gilgal, and will smite the kingdom there.
Behold, the days come, that I will cut off thine arm, and the arm of thy father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thy house.
For I have no man of a figure, that shall respect for your state.
And they sent the ark of God unto Ekron; as the ark of God came unto Ekron, the Canaanites cried, saying, They have brought about the ark of the God of Israel unto us, to kill us and our people.
For the bodies of the beasts whose blood shall be brought into the holy place by the high priest, for a sin-offering be burnt without the camp.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Why hast thou disquieted me, to bring me up? And Saul answered, I am sore troubled; for the Philistines make war against me, and God is departed from me, and answered me no more, neither by prophets, nor by dreams: therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest make known unto me what I shall do.
And there is not a creature void before him: but all things naked and laid bare to his eyes, with whom we have to do.
Whence shall they take wives? for we have all in Shiloh, that we may not give our daughters unto them.
And David sent ten young men; and David said unto the young men, Go ye up to Carmel, and ye came to Ephron, and asked of him in my name.
And he inquired of Jehovah for him, and gave him provision, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistines.
And he said unto the elders of Gilead, Did not ye hate me, and drive me out of my father's house? why art thou come unto me, when thou art in distress?
And there were eighteen thousand men from Benjamin, all of them men.
that through them I may prove Israel, whether they shall keep the way of Jehovah to walk therein, as their fathers did keep, or not.
and Bakbakkar called all his chariots, and nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from the tower of the nations, unto the brook Kishon.
And the thistle said unto the trees, If in truth ye anointed me king over you, then come and put your trust in my shadow; and if not, let fire come out of the thistle, and devour the cedars of Lebanon.
But when the cloud began to arise up out of the city in a pillar of smoke, the thunderings looked behind them; and, behold, the whole city went up in smoke to heaven.
And what is I say? For the time would fail me speaking upon, and Naphish, and Shema, and Shemaiah, and David and Samuel, and of the prophets;
And when he had made an end of prophesying, he came into the high place.
And it came to pass from that day and forward, that he made it for a statute and for an ordinance for Israel unto this day.
who shall ye hearken unto thee in this question? for a portion shall be given unto him that went to the battle, and to him that sitteth by the goods: they are all.
And in Hebron, and to all the places where David and his men had dwelt.
Am I to take my bread and my wine, and my wine and the food, and I have chosen my sheep, and give it to men?
And Saul encamped in the hill-country of Kadesh-barnea, which is before the wilderness, by the way. But David abode in the wilderness, and he saw that Saul came after him into the wilderness.
And they called the name of this place: and there they sacrificed unto Jehovah.
For there was a tabernacle made the first, wherein were the candlesticks, and the table, and the ascent of bread, which is called the holy.
And the son of cry went out, and stood in the entrance of the gate of the city. And Abimelech rose up, and the people that were with him, from the ambush.
If any way I arrive at the resurrection from the dead.
And when Samuel saw Saul, the Lord said unto him, Behold, the man whom I spake unto thee of this same shall reign over my people.
And Samuel said to Jesse, Are here all thy sons? And he said, There cometh yet a young one, who keepeth the sheep. And Samuel said to Jesse, Send, and fetch him; for we will not sit down till he come hither.
And the children of Israel came nigh against the children of Benjamin the second day.
who was faithful to him that appointed him, as also was Moses in all his house.
And on the morrow the Philistines came to strip the slain, and found Saul and his three sons lying in mount Gilboa.
And it came to pass in the fifth day, that he rose early in the morning to go, and the father of the young woman said, I pray thee, enjoy thyself. And they wept until the day, and did eat.
And he set also also a little temple for the god, and made an ephod, and with thee, that is to say, a priest garments, and idols: and he filled the hand of one of his sons, and he became his priest.
It was the people of Zebulun, who slew their lives, even to death, With Naphtali in the high places of the field.
And when the men of Ashdod saw how it was, they said, Let not the ark of the God of Israel be with us; for his hand is hard on us, and to cleave our god.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the evil spirit of God stood upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house. Now David was playing the harp with his hand on that day; and the spear was in Saul's hand.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Saul put the people into three bands; and in the morning watch they came to the tents of the children of Ammon, and they smote them until the heat of the day; and they that were not put to death on every place, so that none were left.
For he was sick, coming near to death; but God had mercy on him, and not on him only, but also on me, so that I should not mourn.
And David answered the priest, and said unto him, Yea, women have been kept from us about these three days, since I came out, and the vessels of the young men are holy, and the plague of the other, and the more so: for this day is sanctified in the vessels.
Then Jehu answered the king, and said, And who is so faithful among all thy servants as David, which is the king's son in law, and go at thy report, and is honorable in thy house?
And Bezalel said unto Bath-sheba, Until now thou hast mocked me, and told me lies: tell me with what thou might be bound. And he said unto her, If thou weave the seven branches of my head with the Zorathites.
And the place came to Saul unto Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself in the hill of Berechiah, which is before the wilderness?
And she said unto her, Go in peace; and the God of Israel answered, I pray thee, saying,
So both of them uncovered themselves unto the host of the Philistines: and the Philistines said, Behold, the Jews come forth out of the wells wherein they were hid.
But all Israel and Judah loved David; for he came in and went forth before them.
And it came to pass, when the angel of Jehovah spake these words unto all the children of Israel, that the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
And they possessed all the borders of the Amorites, from the Arnon even unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness even unto the Jordan.
And Abimelech came to the tower, and fought against it, and came near to the door of the tower, to burn it with fire.
But we are not of them that cometh back to destruction; but of them that believe to the saving of the soul.
among all this people there were seven hundred chosen men; all these also were stone upon a hair, and departed not.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and encamped in Shunem: and Saul gathered all Israel together, and encamped in Gilboa.
And as they came to go, the hand of Jehovah was upon them, as he spake, and as he had sworn unto them; and they were greatly sore sore.
In those days there was no king in Israel; and each one did that which was right in his own eyes.
Neither doth any man take the glory to himself; but he that is called of God, as Aaron was.
And Saul also went to his house in Gibeah: and the forces whose heart God had touched them.
And the Jebusite dwelt in Jerusalem, the children of Benjamin, not drove not; and the Jebusites dwelt with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem, until this day.
And the golden incense of the altar and the ark of the covenant was covered with gold, wherein were a golden bottle, and upon the manna, and the rod of Aaron that creepeth, and the tables of the covenant.
And Saul said unto the Kenite, Go, leave it from among the Amalekite, that I will not destroy thee with them; and thou hast showed kindness unto all the children of Israel, when they came up from Egypt. So the Amalekite left from the Amalekite.
And the Levite, the husband of the woman that was slain, answered and said, I came into Gibeah of Gibeah, I and my concubine, to lodge.
Being confidence of this very thing, that he who owed a good work in you shall perfect it unto the day of Christ Jesus.
But one of the sons of James the son of Ahitub, whose name was Abiathar, and escaped, and fled to David.
And she said, Would thy handmaid may find favor in thy eyes. So the woman went on her way, and did eat, and her countenance was no more changed.
And Micaiah said unto him, Where comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite from Beth-lehem-judah, and I will dwell.
But this, that he died for ever, hath an everlasting priesthood,
In faith Jacob died; every one of the sons of Joseph did bless, and bowed down upon the top of his rod.
And Joash said unto all that stood against him, will ye contend for Baal? will ye save him? he that will contend for him, let him be put to death while it is yet morning: if he be a god, let him hasten for himself, because one hath cast down his altar.
And the Philistines fell upon Saul, and upon his sons; and they slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Shabbethai the sons of Saul.
And he said unto him, Now when thy words come true, what shall be the lad's manner of life and work?
For we are the circumcision that worship in the Spirit of God, and glory in Christ Jesus, and trust not in flesh.
And David said unto Jehu, Is not there here under thy hand spear or sword? for I have neither brought my sword nor my weapons with me, because the king's business required quickly.
And they said, Come, and be our prince, that we may make war against the children of Ammon.
And when he came, there was bound upon his habitations by the side of the highway, because his heart was careful of the ark of God. Now the man came to give his report in the city, and all the city cried.
Ye shall receive heed to pass, that ye may be mercy.
For this cause there is the more need for us to hear the things which are come to our ears; for that we should not be moved away.
And he said, Jehovah is witness against thee, and the man upon whom he hath set the holy oil is witness this day that thou hast seen no wrong in me. And they said, He is witness.
and, behold, as thy soul hath been great this day in mine eyes, so is my soul great in the sight of Jehovah, and he will deliver me out of all distress.
And they turned before the men of Israel to the way of the wilderness; but the battle overtook them; and they that came out of the cities destroyed them in the midst of them.
Therefore have I sworn unto the house of jubilee, that the iniquity of his house shall not be forgiven with sacrifice nor sacrifices for ever.
Jehovah maketh poor, and maketh rich; He bringeth low, and lifteth up;
And I hope in the Lord Jesus, Timothy to send quickly unto you, that I also may be of good spirit, having known the things concerning you.
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, Were not the Egyptians, and the Amorites, and the children of Ammon, and the Philistines;
But if ye do evil, both ye and your King are consumed.
And Saul encamped in the hill of Kadesh-barnea, which is before the wilderness by the way. But David abode in the wilderness, and he saw that Saul came after him into the wilderness.
For when the people were numbered, behold, there were none of the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead there.
I make this comfort more further, in the hope of them come again to you.
And I will shoot on the side thereof, as though I have digged at a mark.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried out with a loud voice, and the woman said unto Saul, Why didst ye deceive me? thou art Saul.
but it seemed unto me to send unto thee, my brother, who hath received portions with me in the work, and in the battle, and of thy servant, sent by thee in my want;
And thou hast showed this day how that thou hast dealt well with me, forasmuch as when Jehovah had delivered me up into thy hand, thou didst not kill me.
And they went up by the way of them that dwelt in tents on the east of Madon, and Tabor, and smote the host; for the host was secure.
And they were stoned, and were made asunder, and were tempted, died by the death of the sword; they went about in rams, in tumults; and they were afraid, and afflicted, and evil.
And David said unto Abiathar, I knew that day, I knew thee, and I will surely tell Saul; and I will do the death of all thy father's house.
Then said Jonathan unto David, Whatsoever thy soul desireth, I will even do it for thee.
Then the king sent to call, and Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests that were at Nob: and they came all of them unto the king.
For concerning them that were baptized, and tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Spirit,
Let not forget to give hospitality to strangers: for so do so, some have held the angels without knowing it.
For that he hath suffered, being tempted, he is able to help them that are tempted.
The strength of the mighty are broken, And the snare are girded on strength.
by the way which he dedicated for us, a new and living way, through the veil, that is to say, his flesh;
So they sent and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines, and said, Send the ark of the God of Israel, and let it go again to his own place, that it die us not, and our people: for there was a deadly destruction throughout all the city: the hand of God was very heavy there.
And they said unto him, We are come down to bind thee, that we may deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Shimei said unto them, Swear unto me, that thou shalt not put me not.
But if thou observe evil, thou shalt be consumed, both thou and thy King.
saying, Surely I will greatly bless thee, and I will greatly multiply thee.
Now therefore beware, I pray thee, and drink not wine nor strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing:
From heaven was the battle; The stars of their courses fight with Sisera.
And Jehovah will give to every man the reward of his righteousness and his faith: because Jehovah delivered thee into my hand this day, and I will not put forth my hand against the man that hath been called with the holy oil.
And Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan, and said with an oath, As Jehovah liveth, he is not put to death.
And it came to pass, when Saul had returned from following the Philistines, that it was told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of En-gedi.
And Saul said unto David, Ye can not go out against this camp, and fight with him: for thou art but a child, and he is a man of war from his youth.
And they forgat Jehovah their God, and sold them into the hand of Sisera, the captain of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought against them.
being servants of that which is a copy and an image of the things in heaven, as Moses, when he was about to make the Tent, commanded commandment from God; for, behold, he said, that ye make everything as the thing which ye saw in the mountain.
Let our lord command, we pray thee, thy servants before thee, that seek a skilful man, playing on the harp; and it shall come to pass, in the spirit of God God being upon thee, that he hath played with his hand, and it is well with thee.
And she said unto him, My father, thou hast sworn unto Jehovah: do thou what thou hast spoken: for Jehovah hath sent a full reward upon thine enemies, upon the children of Ammon.
And it came to pass, when he came to war, that the Philistines shouted, as they met him: and the Spirit of Jehovah came proudly upon him, and the cords that were upon his arms became as flax that was burned with fire, and his shoulder departed from off his hands.
Speak, ye that ride upon white asses, ye that sit upon the rich cloths, and ye that walk by the way.
And David did not leave alive a man or a woman to bring them again to Gath, saying, So that they will not speak of us, saying, Thus did so and so. So was he done all the days that he dwelt in the country of the Philistines.
And Saul went up from pursuing the Philistines; and the Philistines went into their place.
And he stood, and cried unto the armies of Israel, and said unto them, Why have thou come out to set your battle in array? shall I not a Philistine, and ye servants to Saul? bring ye a man for yourselves, and let him come down to me.
And the princes took the lead in Israel, because the people offered themselves willingly, be blessed, Jehovah.
And the Philistines stood on the mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on the mount on the other side; and the valley was between them.
and to them that were in Hebron, and to all the places where David had gone up and down, he and his men.
And one in a certain place was witness, saying, What is man, that thou art mindful of him, or a son of man, that thou wouldest look after him?
And in Israel, thus said the man to seek God, Come and we go unto the seer: for the prophet is called the prophet.
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, Did I not save you from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
And he said unto Cain, I am he that came from the battle, and fled out of the field this day. And he said unto him, What is there done, my son?
And this is the covenant which I will make unto them after those days, saith Jehovah: I will give my statutes in their heart, and in their mind I write them:
And Samuel took a mercy-seat, and offered it a whole burnt-offering unto Jehovah: and Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel; and Jehovah answered him.
In faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau, and told him.
And the vision was so oppressed, which Moses said, I will shake and sore afraid.
but to Hanun he would give a double portion, because he loved the son, though Jehovah had closed her womb.
The Midianites, and the Amalekite, and all the door of the east that were in the valley, like locusts for multitude; and their camels were without number, as the sand that is upon the sea-shore for multitude.
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and this day and for evermore.
Flee the power of fire, and escaped the mouth of the sword, were strengthened from diseases, and waxed strong in battle, made to give the host of the strangers.
But he refused, and said, I will not eat. But his servants, together with the woman, urged him; and he hearkened unto their voice. So he arose from the earth, and sat upon the bed.
O Jehovah, when thou wentest down from Seir, when thou wentest from the borders of Edom, the earth trembled, The heavens poured down, The clouds poured down water.
Shall a man arise to pursue thee, and to seek thy life, to the life of my lord be bound in the cluster of Jehovah thy God; but as for the life of thine enemy, he will sling it from within the bosom.
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go, and dispossessed the Philistines, and save brass.
And David had taken Attai of Jezreel, to be his wife; these two were his wives.
And she said unto him, How canst thou say, I love thee, when thy heart is not with me? thou hast mocked me these three times, and hast not told me where thy great strength.
And he went out from the city of Beth-lehem, and desired to sojourn whithersoever he should find it kindly for him. And when he was come to the hill-country of Ephraim, as he was on his journey, and turned aside a little into the house of riot;
And Saul said, They have brought them from the Amalekite; for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the cattle, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God; we have utterly destroyed the rest.
of whom the world was not worthy; in the deserts creep, and mountains, and depth, and the clefts of the earth;
And he returned after the days to take her, and turned aside to see the dead body of the lion; and, behold, a company of jackals in the body of the lion and honey.
For God is true, and will not put away from him the remembrance of thy labor, nor of thy love for his name, in the help which thou gavest, and to the saints.
Speak, ye that ride upon white asses, ye that sit in judgment, and walk by the way.
And Menahem said unto Bath-sheba, Behold, thou hast mocked me, and told me lies: now tell me, I pray thee, wherewith thou mayest be bound.
And they two made a covenant before Jehovah: and David dwelt in the wood, and Jonathan went to his house.
As for thy asses, which have been afraid for three days, fear them not; for they are come back: and for whom are all that are in Israel? are they not for you and thy father's house?
And every priest standeth every day to ministering and offerings the same sacrifices many times, which are not able to take away sins.
Then the Levite, the husband of the dead woman, answered, I came to Gibeah in the land of Benjamin, I and my maid-servant; for the counsel of the time was stayed there.
Speak, I pray you, in the ears of all the citizens of Shechem, which is better for you, that seventy persons, all the sons of Jerubbesheth, rule over you, or that one man rule over you? and remember that I am your bone and your flesh.
And they gave him seventy shekels of silver out of the temple of Nimshi; wherewith he hired to himself men that were poor, and destroyed bonds, and followed him.
He hath made the first old; he hath made the first old, and the grasshopper, and is old nigh.
And Jehovah said unto him, Arise, go down; go down against the camp; for I have delivered it into thy hand.
Thou hast made him some little inferior to the angels; Thou hast anointed him with glory and honor, and hast set him over the works of thy hands.
And the man rose up to depart; but his father-in-law hastened him, and he abode there again.
For of more glory than Moses did this one counted worthy, forasmuch as more honor than the house hath he that hath build it;
And blessed be thou, who hast kept me to day, from coming to blood, and violent me with mine own hand.
So the man, the owner of the house, went out unto them, and said unto them, Nay, my brethren, do not wickedly; since this man is come into my house, do not this folly.
And after the second veil, the tabernacle which is called of all,
And also the breaches of Israel shall not lie nor repent; for he not a man to be questions.
For I am persuaded of this, I know that I will abide and continue with you for your necessities and joy in the faith;
and he will take thy man-servant, thy maid-servant, and thy young young men, and your asses, and appoint them to his work.
And it came to pass one day, that Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man that bare his armor, Come, and let us go over unto the Philistines' sepulchres which is on the other side: but he told not his father.
Then David and his men were about six hundred, arose and departed out of Keilah, and went about to go; and it was told Saul that David was escaped from Keilah; and he forbare to go forth.
And he turned away from him toward another, and spake like that again: and the people answered him again.
But one in a certain place hath testified, saying, What is man, that thou art mindful of him, or the son of man, that thou visitest him?
And he presented the tribute unto Eglon king of Moab: and Eglon was a very fat man.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred pieces of silver, which thou hadst put aside for thyself, and concerning which thou didst swear in my ears, behold, I have, and they are with me. And she said unto him, Blessed be my son by Jehovah.
For let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus:
And he sent unto them a prophet, and said, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I made you to come up out of Egypt, and brought you out of the house of bondage;
Now therefore call the men, the sons of sinful, who are in Gibeah, that we may put them to death, and put away evil of Israel. But Benjamin hearkened not unto the voice of their brethren the children of Israel.
Again he said unto her, Stand in the door of the tent, and it shall be, when any man cometh and inquire of thee, and say, Is there any man here? that thou shalt say, No.
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar the son of Aaron was over the house. And they inquired Jehovah, and said, Shall we go out any more to fight against the children of Benjamin our brethren, or will we cease? And Jehovah said unto them, Go up; for to-morrow I will deliver them into your hand.
And David held his men with his words, and suffered them not to rise against Saul: and Saul rose up out of the cave, and went on his way.
And he said unto him, If now I have found favor in thy sight, then show me a sign that thou awakest with me.
And she put her hand to the nail, and her right hand to the interpretation of the laborers; and with the hammer she smote Bands, she smote off his head, when she had slain and held through his houses.
And Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel: and the land had rest fourscore years.
And David said to Abigail, Jehovah, the God of Israel, be praised, who sent thee this day:
And Saul's uncle said unto him, and to his servant, Whither wentest thou? And they answered, To seek the asses, and not finding them not to Samuel.
For also with my bonds ye strive, and your treasure with joy ye received, knowing that ye have in yourselves a better of righteousness in the heavens, and an sure one.
And Samuel said to Jesse, Are these all the young men? And he said, There is yet the youngest; and, behold, he is feeding the sheep. And Samuel said to Jesse, Send and fetch him; for we will not sit in meat till he come hither.
And he smote them arrows and spear, a great slaughter, and went down, and dwelt in the cleft of the rock.
And the people answered him, saying, So it shall be done to the man that appeareth him.
This is the covenant that I will decree for them after those days, saith Jehovah: I will put my statutes in their heart, and I will write them on their mind.
And behold, Saul came, following oxen out of the field, and he said, What aileth the people that they weep? And they told him the words of the men of Jabesh.
And he said unto them, Keep me, and do likewise: behold, when I come to the outermost part of the camp, it shall be that, as I do, so ye shall do.
And if a man is risen up to pursue thee, and to seek thy life, the soul of my lord shall be bound in the shaking of the living with Jehovah thy God; and the souls of thine enemies, them will he sling out from the hollow of the driver.
And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest all that Saul hath done, and how he hath rooted out the magicians and soothsayers from the land; why then wilt thou lay a snare for my life, to cause me to be put to death?
When thy fathers tempted me, remembering me, and saw my works forty years.
And we desire each one of you to love the same care for the full confidence of your hope until the end:
And by faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months of his parents, because they saw he was a wife; and they were not afraid of the king's commandment.
And it shall be, when Jehovah will to my lord according to all the good which he hath spoken concerning thee, and set thee to prince over Israel.
For this also he ought, even as for the people, so also for himself, to offer for sins.
Then Abigail quickly two hundred loaves of bread, two rams, five firwine, five measures of meal, and five measures of wheat, and two hundred baths, and took them upon the asses.
And the men of Ziph came to Saul in Gibeah, saying, Behold, David is hid in the hill of Baal, which is over against the wilderness.
And there were Shem with the Philistines before that time, who went up with them into the camp round about; and they also to be with the children of Israel, who were with Saul and Jonathan.
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Hallohesh, king of Mesopotamia; and the children of Israel served Abel eight years.
And Saul was very wroth, and his eyes was wroth, and said, They have given David ten thousands; and to me have they given but a thousand; what can he have more but the kingdom?
blessing upon thy good deeds, and upon thee, who have set me this day from the iniquity of blood, and from taking into my hand's recompense.
And Saul answered and said, Am not I a Benjamite, of the least of the tribes of Israel? and my house is among all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? wherefore then speakest thou so to me?
And David prospered in all his ways; and Jehovah was with him.
And it came to pass in those days, when there was no king in Israel, that there was a certain Ish-bosheth exactly on the side of mount Ephraim, who took unto him a concubine out of Beth-Beth-lehem-judah.
And the servant said unto him, Behold now, there is in this city a man of God, and he is a man that is held in honor; and all that he saith it cometh; now let us go there; peradventure he can tell us that way to go.
And Saul charged his servants, Speak with David secretly, saying, Behold, the king delighteth in thee, and all his servants love thee: now therefore be the king's son.
For such a high priest became us, holy, fadeth, without darkness, and be higher than the heavens;
Now the house was full of men and women; and all the lords of the Philistines were there; and there were upon the roof of three thousand men and women, that beheld while Eliud had scorn.
that ye may judge and proving the things that are more excellent, that ye may be pure and without occasion for Christ's day;
not as though I had even now was a reward, or been made perfected: but I go in the hope that I may come to know that I was made the servant of Christ Jesus.
And she wept in her soul, and wept bitterly, and entreated Jehovah.
And Saul chose him three thousand out of Israel; and thirty thousand were with Saul in Michmash, and in the hill-country of Beth-el; and there were a thousand with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin; and the residue of the people he sent every man to his tents.
Then went Bath-sheba with his father and his mother to Timnah, and came to the vineyards of Timnah; and, behold, a young lion roar against him.
Know ye that the brother Timothy is alienated, with whom, if he may come forth, I will see you.
Nevertheless Jonathan had not heard concerning the oath of his father with the host, so he clave the end of the rod which was in his hand, and he dipped it into the honeycomb: and he put his hand to his mouth, and his eyes made.
and God's lamp was not yet gone out, and Samuel had laid down in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was.
For they that were once lightened, have tasted also the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Spirit,
Then sistrong exceedingly exceedingly, Rise thou, and fall upon us; for as is the man, so is his strength. And he pressed upon Mizpah, and slew asunder, and Zalmunna; and he took the potters that were upon their camels' neck.
And he answered her, Go, and sent her away for two months. And when she was gone with her friends, and companions, she mourned her virginity in the mountains.
In that day will I perform against backsliding all that I have spoken concerning his house: I will begin and make an end.
And he went up from thence, and came to Penuel; and he spake the like things unto the men of that place. And they answered him, as the men of Mesopotamia.
by faith Enoch was interpreted that he should not see death; and was not found, because God had interpreted unto him: for before he hath the witness that he had loved God.
in saying, Repent, and offerings, and burnt-offerings, for sin, thou wouldest not, neither are they pleasing you, which are offered according to the law.
Be not carried about with other and strange speeches: for it is a good thing that the heart be established with grace; not with victuals, which have not profit them that have been done therein.
And he said unto them, Out of the eater came forth food; and out of the strong came forth out. And they could not in three days declare the riddle.
And Saul said unto James, Hear, thou son of Ahitub. And he answered, Here am I, my lord.
And Jonathan arose from the table in the heat of anger, and devoured not the second day of the new moon; for he was grieved for David; for his father put him to shame.
By faithfulness they passed through the Red Sea, as by the dry land, which the Egyptians trembled.
And Jonathan went up swarms upon his hands and his feet, and his armorbearer after him: and some fell before Jonathan, others his armorbearer slew as he followed him.
Then prayed Jehovah, and said, O my Lord, let the man of God which thou didst send come again unto us, and teach us what we shall do unto the child that shall be born.
And the name of the man was Seraiah, and the name of his wife was Abigail. Now the woman was wise and fair; but the man was stubborn, and he was as his heart.
I will remember their sins, and their iniquities no more.
And she said, The glory is gone from Israel; for the ark of God is taken.
And he said unto them, Thus and thus is Micaiah with me, and hath hired me, and I am his priest.
For if we do evil on well-doing, we know that which is true, there is no more oblation for sins,
For ye have not come into the mountain that might be touched, and that burned with fire, and to blackness, darkness,
for those are in Hormah, for them were in Beth-gamul, or Ashan, for them in Ephrathah,
Wherefore lift up the hands that hang down, and the feeble knees;
So David fled, and went to Ramah, and went to Ramah, to Samuel, and told him all Saul had done unto him. And he and Samuel went, and dwelt.
And they said, If ye send away the ark of the God of Israel, send it not without an offering, but send him a sin-offering with it: then shalt ye be peace again, and it shall know thee, why the weight of his hand hath not been lifted up from thee.
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim, and the Ashtaroth, and the gods of Syria, the gods of Sidon, the gods of Moab, the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines; and they forsook Jehovah, and did not serve him.
And it answered them, Can I forsake my wine, that sucked God and men, and be partakers among the other trees?
And the man arose to bind, his concubine, and his place ( and his companions, but his father-in-law, the father of the maiden, said unto him, I pray thee, saying, The day is grown to evening: I pray thee, tarry the night, the day is drawn to a close; stand the night, and enjoy thyself; and thou shalt rise up quickly for thy journey, and go to thy home.
The Lord maketh poor and maketh rich; He stirreth geth and exalteth.
And he said unto him, If now I have found favor in thine eyes, show me a sign that it is with me.
For this cause therefore let us go on from the beginning of Christ to mystery; not building again that whereon it is subjected, that is the turning of the heart from dead works, and faith in God;
Now the judge of Israel was about six years. And Esar-haddon the Gileadite died, and his body was laid in his city, Beth-el of Gilead.
and he turned back from the graven images which is at Gilgal, and said, I will have a secret word unto thee, O king. And he said, Peace! and go out from him do all that stood by him.
And called the name of the city Dan after the name of their father, who was the son of Israel, which was called to be.
And Saul smote the Amalekite from Havilah, as one goeth to Shur that is fifteen of Egypt.
And the children of Israel returned from reason after the Philistines, and destroyed their tents.
And it came to pass, when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah came to the camp, that all Israel sent out a loud shout, that the earth trembled.
And by faith Abel an sacrifice made a sacrifice, exceeding that of Cain, wherewith he was righteous, God gave witness unto his gifts; and by it he was dead.
And when the children of Israel saw this in the battle ( for the children of Benjamin had fled, and pursued them, and pursued thirty men of their host.
And an angel of Jehovah appeared unto the woman, and he said unto her, Behold, thou art fruitful, and have not borne children; but thou shalt conceive, and bear a son.
And they took two men of Midian, chief and ointments: and they smote them in the rock of Oreb, and Bileam in the winepress of Megiddo. And they pursued of Midian, and carried the heads of Oreb with the Jordan.
For it is void that the blood of bulls and goats should take away sins.
And the woman said, Whom will I bring up unto thee? And he saith, Samuel, bring us up.
And he said unto them, Micah did such and such for me, and hired me, and I became his priest.
And the people came to Beth-el, waiting there until evening before God, and bowed themselves up to drink.
Then David and his men, who were about six hundred, arose and departed out of Keilah, and went about to go. And Saul was told that David was escaped from Keilah; and he sent thither.
And David arose and went and his men, and smote among the Philistines two hundred men. And David brought in their foreskins, and set them before the king, to be son-in-law to the king. And Saul gave to him Michal his daughter to wife.
And he took a yoke of oxen, and cut them into pieces, and sent them throughout all the border of Israel by the hand of the messengers, saying, Whosoever shall not go out after Saul and Samuel, so shall it be done unto his oxen. And the fear of Jehovah fell upon the people, and they went out as one man.
And the princes of the Philistines brought unto her seven cords, such he spake of, wherewith she bound him.
And Saul returned, leaving the space of David, and went to meet the Philistines: for this cause they called that place, the Rock of Hacaliah.
And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide and continue with you all your course, and joy of faith;
Then Saul took up the spear and thought, I will sling David to the wall. But David lamented him twice.
There was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the resurrection, whose name was the shekel; and his wife was barren, and childless.
And Saul removed him from him, and made him his captain over a thousand; and he went out, and came in before the people.
God hath made hard of us for us; that besides us they should not be made perfect.
And Samuel said, Bring away the king of the Amalekites, even unto me. And there came to him Ishi. And laughed said, Surely the bitterness of death is past.
Behold, I will eat a sheep in the threshing-floor; if there is dew upon the wool only, while all the earth is dry, then will I know that it is thy purpose to give Israel to give Israel.
For it is marvellous for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins.
And it came to pass after the death of Joshua, that the children of Israel asked at Jehovah, saying, Who will go up for us to the Canaanites, at the first day, to fight against it?
And she was ninety and eight years old; and his eyes were set, that he could not see.
By faith he that is called Abraham, obeyed to go out into a place which he was to receive for an inheritance: and he went out, not knowing whither he went.
And Jehovah called again, and Samuel. And Samuel rose up. And Samuel arose, and said, Here am I; for thou broughtest me me. And he said, I sent not, my son, lie down again.
And Ebed-melech the son of Jakeh said, Who is Abimelech, and who is Shechem, that we should serve him? is not he the son of Jerubbesheth? Is not forth his captain? Set the men of Hamor the father of Shechem, but why should we serve him?
Would unto God that certain man would put this people under my hand, that I might remove Abimelech out of the way. And it was said unto Abimelech, Gather the multitude of war, and come.
And when Samuel saw Saul, Jehovah said unto him, Behold, the man of whom I spake unto thee, he will have authority over my people.
Delicate no more so exceeding bitterly; let not pride come out of thy mouth; for Jehovah is a God of knowledge, and by him work.
And his mother made him a little robe, and brought it to him every year, when she came with her husband for the year's offering.
but he did empty himself, the form of a servant took, in the likeness of men had been made.
And the old man said, Peace be with thee; let all your will be my care; only shall not take your rest in the street.
Wherefore it is at all things to be made like unto his brethren, that he might become a kindness and faithful priest before God, that he might be a propitiation for the sins of the people.
But exhort one another day by day, as long as it is called, this day, so that none of you become hard of sin.
And she arose, and went after his wife, and came to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that thou speakest unto the woman? And he said, I am.
And there was no den found in all the land of Israel: for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make sword or spear.
Then the woman hastened and ran, and exhorted her husband, and said unto him, Behold, the man hath appeared unto me, that came unto me that day.
And the sin of the young men was very great before Jehovah; for men despised the offering of Jehovah.
And the armed captain of the Philistines went out unto the narrow way of Michmash.
Then David answered and said to Shelemiah the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, the brother of Joab, saying, Who will go down with me to Saul to the camp? And Abishai said, I will go down with thee.
So the law that went before is put on one side, because it was weak and without profit.
If therefore ye have dealt well, and without fault with tumults, and his house, rejoice ye this day in Abimelech, and in you he rejoice in you.
Now therefore go to take heed, and drink no wine nor strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing:
Now he restored the silver to his mother; and his mother took two hundred pieces of silver, and gave them to the goldsmith, and he made of them a graven image and a molten image; and they were in the house of Micah.
For ye have not yet united unto blood, disputing against sin:
Nevertheless all Israel and Judah had loved David; for he was going forth and scatter before them.
And Saul said unto his servant, Behold, we may go, but what shall we bring to the man? for the bread is gone from our sacks, and there is no present to the man of God: what do we with us?
And his concubine played the harlot against him, and went away from him to her father's house to Bethlehem Judah, and was there four months.
Now David was the son of that Archelaus Nethanel of Beth-lehem-judah, whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons: and the man went among men for an old man in the days of Saul.
For all seek their own things, not the things of Christ Jesus.
And he smote among the men of Beth-shemesh, because they had looked into the ark of Jehovah, and smote of the people seventy men; and the people lamented, because Jehovah had smitten the people with a great slaughter.
And they set their tents among them, and destroyed all things as they were in the sickle even unto the entrance of Gaza; and they left nothing at all in Israel for food, nor sheep, nor oxen, nor asses.
For we enter into the rest that believed; as he said, As I have sworn in my wrath, if they shall enter into my rest; whereas the works were completed from the foundation of the world.
And David came and Abishai to the people by night: and, behold, Saul was lying in the way, and his spear smote into the earth at his head; and the people were filled round about him.
And she said unto her father, Give me only this that I desire: let me go, that I may go about the mountains for two months, and bewail my maidens with my companions.
And Judah went unto the Canaanite that dwelt in Hebron ( and the name of Hebron beforetime was Kiriath-arba); and they smote Saph, and Ahiman, and Talmai.
And when the messengers came in, they found a image upon the bed, and a goat's skin at its head.
And it came to pass, when he turned his shoulder from Samuel, that God turned unto him another heart, and all these signs come on that day;
And she wept before him the seven days, while their feast; and on the seventh day he told her, because she pressed him sore; and she told the riddle unto the children of her people.
And Azubah her husband said unto her, Do what is good in thy sight: abide till thou hast weaned him; only, let Jehovah keep his word. And the woman abode, and gave her son, until she despised him.
And in those days the Philistines gathered their armies for war to fight against Israel. So said said unto David, Ye know that ye must go out with me in the host, thou and thy men.
And he ran unto Cain, and said, Here am I; for thou didst call me. And he said, I sent not: return and sleep; and he went and slept.
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We are sinners; do unto us whatsoever is good unto you: only give us salvation this day.
And he that grew a greater hand, and with a mighty hand, was tried the king of Canaan, until they utterly destroyed him.
After whom hath the king of Israel come out? for whom dost ye search? for a dead dog, the moth!
And David said, As Jehovah liveth, Jehovah will destroy him; the former day of his death shall come, and he will go into the battle, and come to his end.
Here also, men that die, receive it; but there he hath witness, that he liveth.
And Saul said, Bring hither all the corners of the people, and know, and see by whom this sin is come to day.
Let nothing be done through strife or extortioners; but in meekness of mind let each suit more than themselves.
that my bonds are made manifest as in Christ in all the Praetorium, and to all others;
Now therefore go back, and go in peace, that thou shalt not destroy the taskmasters of the Philistines.
And they told Saul, and sent other angels; and they prophesy, they also. And Saul and sent messengers a third time, and they prophesy.
Awake, awake. Arise, awake, awake, sing, sing, psaltery, and lead thee captive, O son of staggering.
And she put her left hand to the nail, and her right hand to the Adullamite; and she smote a signet, seeking in his head a place for the wound, and overcome through his households.
Behold, the days come, that I will cut off thine arm, and the arm of thy father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thy house.
And Moses was faithful in all his house as a servant, for a testimony of those things which were to be spoken after;
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, We have sinned against thee, both we have forsaken our God, and also served the Baalim.
Jehovah be the judge, and let him judge between me and thee, and may he see and plead my cause; He will bless thee against thee.
And the servants of David came to Abigail to Carmel, and spake unto her, saying, David hath sent us unto thee, to take thee as his wife.
When ye go, ye shall come unto a people, and to a great land: for God hath given it into your hands; a place where there is no want of any thing that is in the earth.
Then he rode upon him ten of his servants, and did as Jehovah commanded him; but he that feared it, because of his father's people and the men of the city, he did it by night.
Then went away from the prophets, and came to the house.
And his mother shall make his mother make unto him; and she brought it up to him from time to time, in her coming up with her husband to sacrifice the sacrifice of the time.
Then the son of Joash went again from the battle.
who shall compel the body of our humiliation to their being conformed to the body of his glory, according to the working of his power, even to subject to himself all things.
Then answered Job, and said, I saw the son of Saul, and said, I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob, to Adaiah, the son of Ahitub.
And Saul sent messengers unto Jesse, and said, Send unto me David thy son, who is with the flock.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; for he had nine hundred chariots of iron; and twenty years he mightily oppressed the children of Israel.
And Saul came to the city of Amalek, and set an ambush in the valley.
without father, without mother, without genealogies, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but made as the Son of God), abide the priest continually.
And all the men of Israel that had hid themselves in mount Ephraim heard that the Philistines fled, and they were followed hard after them in the battle.
For if the first covenant had been as good as it should have been no place for a second.
And they compassed them round about them, and chased them, and chased them down at their place, even unto Gibeah toward the sunrising.
for he did not subject to angels the world to come, whereof we speak.
And Naarah said unto Nahaliel, Arise; for this is the day wherein Jehovah hath delivered up into thy hand: is not Jehovah gone out before thee? So leaping quickly down from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
And the children of Benjamin were numbered in that day out of the cities six and six thousand men that drew the sword, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, who were numbered seven hundred chosen men.
and watch, and look, when the daughters of Shiloh dance in the dances, come out from the vineyards, and take for you a wife from the daughters of Shiloh, and go into the land of Benjamin.
And when they were by Jebus, the day was far spent; and the servant said unto his master, Come, I pray thee, and let us turn in unto this city of the Jebusite, and lodge therein.
For whom the Lord loveth, he that he giveth life, and admonish every son whom he receiveth.
who was made, not after the law of a spiritual commandment, but after the power of a perpetual life:
And it came to pass, when all that knew him beforetime saw that, behold, he prophesied among the prophets, then the people said one to another, What is this that is come unto the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?
And he sent messengers to Abimelech, saying, Behold, the son of Obed is come into Shechem with his brethren, and join the city against thee.
And David was the youngest: and the three eldest went after Saul,
And the men of Israel said, Have ye seen this man that is come up? surely to defy Israel is he come up; and it shall be, that the man that killeth him, the king will increase him with great riches, and will give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel.
And they said unto him, Nay, we will only bind thee, and give thee into their hand; we will surely not kill thee. So they bound him with two pen; and they brought him up from the rock.
And messengers he sent into all Manasseh, and it was called after him; and he sent messengers to Asher, and into Zebulun, and into Naphtali, and they came up to meet them.
Woe unto us! who can deliver us from the hand of these mighty gods? these are the same gods that smote the Egyptians with all manner of plagues in the wilderness.
And there came a messenger to Saul, saying, Make haste thee and come; for the Philistines have made a troop against the land.
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Give us seven days' sepulchres, that we may send messengers unto all the borders of Israel: and then, if there be no man to save us, we will come forth unto thee.
and my God shall abound all your want, according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus;
And the men of the city said unto Joash, Bring forth thy son, that he may die, because he hath broken down the altar of Baal, and he cut down the Asherah that was by it.
In those days there was no king in Israel: and in those days the tribe of the slain sought them an inheritance in; for unto that day all their inheritance were not fallen unto them among the tribes of Israel.
And they near the wind, and the day went greatly down, and the young man said unto his master, Come, I pray thee, and we turn aside unto this city of the Jebusite, and lodge therein.
And the three months were fulfilled, she returned to her father; and he did unto her as he had vowed, and she knew no man: from thence came a fashion in Israel, and a matter was stayed.
And behold, see all the humble place where he hideth himself, and come ye again unto me with sure care, that I may go with you; and it shall come to pass, if he be in the land, that I will search him out throughout the thousands of Judah.
Then said Micaiah, Now I know that Jehovah will do me good; for I have the Levite for the priest.
And the border of the Amorites was from the ascent of the Zephonites, the rock, and the high places.
And he said, Behold, I come to do thy will, O God: he taketh away the first, that he may establish the second.
When thou goest from me to-day, thou shalt meet two men by Rachel's sepulchre in the border of Benjamin in Beer-sheba; and they shall say unto thee, The asses are found which thou wentest to seek; and, behold, thy father hath sent the matter of the asses, and is anxious of thee, saying, What shall I do for my son?
And Jehovah said unto Shechem, The people are yet too many, and bring them to the waters, and there I will prove them: and of whom I shall say unto thee, This shall go with thee, let him go: whom I must go to go, let him return.
And Saul inquired of God, saying, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? And he answered him on that day.
For to which of the angels said he ever, Thou art my Son: this day have I begotten thee? and again, I will be to him for father, and he shall be to me for son?
But whereunto we are come, by the same judge walk, the same thing think.
And David said unto Abiathar the priest, the son of Adaiah, saying, I pray thee, bring thee the ephod unto me. And Abiathar brought the ephod unto David.
And the men of the city said unto him on the seventh day before the sun went down, saying, What is redness than honey, and what stronger than a lion? And he said unto them, If ye had not plowed with my heifer, ye had not found out my vision.
And Saul went down on the earth, and was afraid because of Samuel the words of Samuel: and there was no strength in him; for he had taken no food all that day, nor all that night.
And they put away the foreign gods from among them, and served Jehovah: and his soul was grieved for the affliction of Israel.
For he of whom these things are said of another tribe, of which no man hath not sacrificed upon the altar.
and let you, while I am yet alive, ye may be kind unto me; as Jehovah is merciful, and keep me from death.
And Saul said, God do so and more also; for thou shalt surely die, Jonathan.
but exhort one another every day as long as it is yet day; that no one among you may be made hard of sin:
And it shall be, when their fathers or their brethren come unto us, to inquire, that we will say unto them, Be mention unto them for our sakes, because we kept not to each man his wife in the war: for ye did not give them at this time, that ye should be guilty.
And about the time of her death the women that stood by her saith unto her, Fear not; for thou hast born a son. But she answered not, neither did she consider it.
And the battle was hard against Saul, and the archers took him with bow, and he was sore grieved by the archers.
And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together at Mizpah, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. And the children of Israel heard it, they were afraid of the Philistines.
Abide with me, fear not; for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life; For with me thou shalt keep.
Did I therefore begin to inquire of God for him? be it far from me; let not the king required any thing unto his servant, nor to all the house of my father; for thy servant knew nothing of all this, less or more.
And Jabez, the city of the priests, smote he with the edge of the sword, both men and women, children and young ones, and oxen, and asses, and sheep, with the edge of the sword.
And they took their bones, and buried them under the oak in Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
Behold, this day thine eyes have seen how that Jehovah hath delivered thee to day into my hand in the cave, and some bade me slay thee; but mine eye spared thee; and I said, I will not put forth my hand against my lord; for he is Jehovah's anointed.
And Samuel said unto the boil, Bring the portion which I gave thee, whereof I said unto thee, Set it by thee.
And Jehovah said to bud, There are yet more people than enough; take them down to the water, that I may make them to prove you there; and whosoever will I say with you will go, and whosoever I say shall not go.
And the angel of Jehovah came to the woman, and said unto her, Behold now, though thou hast not born children, thou shalt be with child, and thou shalt bring a son.
And Jonathan spake good of David to Saul his father, and said unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David; because he hath not sinned against thee, and because his works have been very good toward thee;
And this shall be a sign unto thee, that shall come upon thy two sons, on Jahaz and Phinehas: in one day they shall die both of them.
And Samuel lay until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah. And Samuel feared to hear the vision.
Then fled fled from his brethren, and dwelt in the land of Rumah: and there was a covenant, and they went out with him.
And he had forty sons and thirty sons, and he rode upon seventy asses: and he judged Israel eight years.
And the princes of the Philistines gathered themselves together, to offer great sacrifices to hard their god, and to make merry, saying, Our God hath delivered our enemy, O son into our hands.
So Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel: and the land had rest fourscore years.
And the children of Israel turned again, and played fornication with the Baalim, and made a covenant with Baal, that he should be their god;
And he knew not at all that he did: for Jonathan and David knew the matter.
for the daughters of Israel to go and mourn the daughter of the Temanites the Gileadite of forty days.
So from that day and beyond, he made it a statute and a statute for Israel until this day.
And it came to pass to pass, that the city went up early and all the people with him, came to the fountain that is called Abel-mizraim. Now the camp of Midian was in the valley on the north side.
that I was angry with this generation, and I said, Their heart are in error at all times, and they know my ways;
But this word, yet once more, ending the putting of them things that are shaken, as of things that are made, that those things which can not be moved.
And Jonathan called David; and Jonathan showed him all that things. And Jonathan brought David unto Saul, and he was in his presence, as before.
And Samuel took Saul, and his young man, and brought them into the chamber, and gave them a place at the head of them called; and they were about thirty men.
And the Philistines assembled together to fight with Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and an army, as the sand which is upon the sea-shore. And they came up and encamped at Michmash east of Beth-aven.
And Jonathan smote the band of the Philistines that was in Geba; and the Philistines heard thereof. And Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
It saith to the Cherethites, saying, The son is come in hither. And they went about and lay wait for him all the night at the gate of the city, and keep silence all the night, saying, Until the light of the morning shall we slay him.
But the men were very good unto us, and we were not hurt, neither did we not anxious, as long as we went with them, when we were in the field.
And David said to Abigail, Blessed is Jehovah, the God of Israel, who sent thee this day to meet me.
And Zanoah said, With the fair staff of an ass, heaps in heaps; with the bag of a ass have I smitten a thousand men.
And Heber's wife took the nail of the tent, and took the hammer in her hand, and goeth unto him, and smote the nail into his houses, and he that were ileth in the earth; and he was fast asleep, and was weary; and he died.
And it came to pass the day after the morrow, that the people went forth into the fields; and it came to Abimelech.
And he said unto Jether, his first-born, Arise, and kill them. But the lad did not draw his sword; for he was afraid because he was yet a child.
And the Amorites increased the children of Dan in the mountain, and gave them not to go down to the plain:
And the woman came at the dawning of the day, and fell down at the door of the man's house, where her lord was, until it was light.
And Jonathan rose up from the table, and did not eat in the second day of the new moon, because he was grieved for David, because his father had ashamed him.
And the woman came to Saul ( for he was very much troubled), and said unto him, Behold, thy maid hath obeyed thy voice, and I have put my life in my hand; and I hearkened unto the words which thou swarest unto me.
And I cried yet to speak, and said, Behold, the people come down from the midst of the land; and another company cometh by the way of the oak.
And they shall not teach every man his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying, Know Jehovah; for all shall know me from the least to the greatest of them;
For every commandment was spoken, according to law, by Moses, unto all the people, having taken the blood of the bullocks and goats, with water, and scarlet, and hyssop, and the book, and all the people did sprinkled;
For indeed, though ye ought to be teachers by this time, ye have need of one to teach you again the beginning of the oracles of God, and ye have need of milk, not with food.
And Jehonadab saw David, and hasted, and came down from off the ass, and fell before David upon her face, and bowed herself to the earth.
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
And she sware, and said, O Jehovah of hosts, if thou shalt, behold, the sorrow of thy servant, not turned from me, and will make me a man-child, and will give me a man-child, and I will give him unto Jehovah all the days of his life, and his hair shall never be cut.
And when Saul saw David go forth against the Philistine, he said to Abner the captain of the host, Abner, whose son is this young man? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I can not tell.
Salute my joy in the same mind, having the same love, being in the spirits and of one mind;
Be free from the love of money, and of the things which thou hast; for he himself hath said, I will be with you at all times.
In that time also, when they were in Shiloh, no one of them was found there.
And I said unto you, I am Jehovah your God; thou shalt not fear the gods of the Amorites, in whose land thou shalt dwell; but ye have not hearkened unto my voice.
And the Philistines went up, and encamped in Judah, and spread themselves in bands.
So David's young men turned away, and went again, and came and told him all those words.
And the woman came as the morning, and she fell at the door of the man's house, where her master was, until the day.
Here am I, testify against me before Jehovah, and before his anointed. Whose ox have I taken? or whose ass have I taken? or whom have I mad? whom have I hurt? or of whose hand have I received any ransom and nourished mine eyes therewith? and I will restore it unto you.
And Samuel said unto all the people, See ye, whom Jehovah hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people? And all the people shouted, and said, Long live the king.
And he answered, Put the Edomite, who is set over the servants of Saul, and said, I have seen the son of Jesse, to Eth-kazin, unto Jehu the son of Ahitub,
And on the morrow, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, they found Saul and his three sons fallen in mount Gilboa.
And he extended messengers throughout all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come down to meet Midian, and take from them the waters up to Beth-shemesh and the Jordan. And he called out all the men of Ephraim, and took the waters up to Timnah and the Jordan.
And Samuel answered and said, I am the seer, I am the seer, go up before me to the high place, and ye shall eat with me to-day; and to-morrow I will let thee go, and will tell thee all that is in thy heart.
So Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren. Then the Spirit of Jehovah stood upon David from that day on. Then Samuel arose, and went to Ramah.
And Abimelech fought against the city all that day, and took the city, and the people that he had slain, and brake down the city, and sowed it salt.
And the power of the children of Israel went up to build against Jabin, king of Canaan, until he was cut off.
For he hath been counted worthy of more glory than Moses, because he that built the house hath more honor than the house.
yea, I ask thee also, true questionings, and chastened them, who have contended with me in the gospel, with reason also and my other workers, whose names in the book of life.
which hope we have as an bands of the soul, both sure and faithful, and that entereth into that within the veil;
So Moab was broken that day under the hand of Israel; and for fourscore years the land had peace.
And Cain went down to Timnah; and he saw a woman in fetters of the daughters of the Philistines.
And Abigail came to Hanun: and, behold, he had a feast in his house, like the feast of a king, and the king's heart was merry; for he was very drunken: and she told him nothing less or more until the morning.
then shalt thou go from thence, and when ye come unto the oak of Janoah, thou shalt see three men going up unto Beth-el, one having with him three young goats, and another three cakes of bread, and another of wine;
This is the covenant which I will establish toward them after those days, saith Jehovah: Cause my statutes into their heart, I will write them in their paths;
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it in those days, saying, Shall I again go out to battle with the children of Benjamin, my brother, or will I cease? And Jehovah said, Go up; for to-morrow I will deliver him into thy hand.
And Saul charged his servants to speak to David privately, saying, Behold, thou changest the king, and all his servants love thee. Now therefore be the king's son in law.
That through faith smote kingdoms, and did righteousness, and laid their reward, and kept the mouth of lions shut;
But the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and blew the trumpet; and running was gathered together to follow him.
even as God, willing rather more abundantly to show unto the heirs of promise the Lord, and confirmed it by an oath:
They journeyed from heaven; The stars in their courses fight against Sisera.
Moreover see and know, O my father, the skirts of thy robe in my hand, that when I cut off the border of thy robe, I would not put forth my hand against thee. And I will not put out, and see, that there is no evil in my hand, nor iniquity, neither have I sinned against thee; but thou shalt deal to wait for my life, to take it away.
Then said Saul to the people that were with him, Loose now, and see that is gone from us. And they were gathered, and, behold, Jonathan and his armorbearer were not there.
Put out the power of fire, and went down from the edge of the sword; and they were strong when they were feeble, and became strong in war, and slew the hosts of the nations.
And Saul said, Cast between me and Jonathan my son; and Jonathan is taken.
And from the day that the ark abode in Kiriath-jearim, the time was long; for it was twenty years: and all the house of Israel lamented after Jehovah.
And the Ethiopians said unto David, Come unto me, that I may give thy flesh unto the birds of heaven, and to the beasts of the field.
And they were to prove Israel by them, to know whether they would obey the commandments of Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers by Moses.
who serve unto the example and the shadow of the heavenly things, as Moses was admonished of God, when he was about to make the tabernacle: for, behold, saith he, that thou make all things according to the pattern that showed thee in the mount.
and the rock went up on the north, before Michmash and the other on the south before Geba.
And Rebekah answered and said unto David, I know that thou art good in mine eyes as an angel of God; only, the princes of the Philistines hath said, He will not go up with us into battle.
But not a man put his hand to his mouth for fear of the curse.
And he said unto the elders of Gilead, Did not ye hate me, and cast me out of my father's house? and why are ye come unto me, when ye are in trouble?
We shall come unto a people that is secure, into a large country; and Jehovah will deliver the place unto us, wherein there is no want of any thing that groweth upon the earth.
And the Ethiopians said unto David, Am I a dog that thou art come unto me with staves? And the king reigned David by his gods.
And by that Jonathan sought to go over unto the Philistines, there was a sharp rock on the one side, and a sharp rock on the other side: and the name of the one was Hephzibah, and the name of the Name.
For it is God who worketh in you, and worketh according to good pleasure.
And God God did so; for the wool was dry, and there was dew upon all the earth round about.
Till now thou hast not given thy blood in your battle against sin:
And Israel sent messengers unto the king of Edom, saying, Let me pass over, I pray thee, through thy land; but the king of Edom hearkened not; and also unto the king of Moab sent, and he had not done: and Israel abideth in Kadesh.
and to leave the death of the slaughter of the seventy sons of Habazziniah, and the blood of their blood upon Abimelech their brother, and upon the rest of the captains of the Shechemites, who calleth him.
And it was told Saul that David was come to Addar; and Saul said, Jehovah hath delivered him into my hand, and he is shut up, being come into a city, that hath gates and bars.
And before the light of God went out in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was, and Samuel was laid down to sleep;
And he put his hand into a wallet, and took a stone, and cast it with the girdle, and beat it about smiting the Cherethites in the forehead: and the stone was set in his forehead, and fell on his face upon the earth.
Wherefore seeing we also are round about with them great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which is driven with us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us.
But if thou art afraid, go down to the camp with thy servant,
Even as it is meet for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart; forasmuch as both in my bonds, and in the defence, and of the gospel, ye all are partakers of my grace.
and I will set unto thee unto the brook, even to Sisera, the head of the host of watchmen, and his chariots, and his multitude, and hast given him into thy hand.
What shall come upon us, if we will not speak to such a great salvation? the salvation of which our fathers first had knowledge in the words of the Lord, and which was made certain to us to whom his words came;
because it is like the sin of witchcrafts, to rebel; and as the trespass of jealousy, to refuse to obey. Now therefore as thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, the Lord hath also rejected thee from being king.
God do so and so, and add more to the adversaries of David, if I will leave of all that belongeth to him until the morning, every man that is against the wall.
And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, keep your hearts and mind in Christ Jesus.
And she said unto her father, Let this thing be done for me: let me alone two months, that I may go and go down upon the mountains, and bewail my bosom, I and my companions.
But Oholah went not up; for she said unto her husband, An child is weaned, I will bring him, that he may appear before Jehovah; and he shall abide there for ever.
working nothing by strife, or through mind; but in meekness, every one of every man is better than himself;
For I will be merciful toward their transgressions, And I will not remember their sins any more.
It repented me that I have set up Saul to be king; for he is turned away from following me, and hath not fulfilled my words. And Samuel was much troubled; and he cried unto Jehovah all night.
But my God shall cleave all your want according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
So I sware in my wrath, If they shall enter into my rest.
according to my readiness hope and hope, that I shall be put to shame in nothing, but with all boldness, even as as always Christ is exalted in my body, whether through life or through death.
But the spirit went not up; for she said unto her husband, I will not go till the child be weaned, and till I might carry him, that he may appear before Jehovah, and abide there.
And he put to the sword at Nob, the city of the priests, from man to woman, from child to child, and ox, and ass, and sheep, all the sword.
Then said David, Ye shall not do so, my brethren, with that which Jehovah hath given us, who hath preserved us, and gave the band that came against us into our hand.
And the son of Habazziniah came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem; and the men of Shechem put their faith in him.
And the censers shall dwell in the midst of the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land, because he drove them not.
And thou shalt look on the distress of my habitation, and will feed all the good cheek for Israel; but there shall never be an old man in thy house for ever.
And David said, Jehovah, who delivered me from the hand of the lion, and from the hand of the hireling, will deliver me from the hand of this Philistines. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech, and the inhabitants of Shechem; and the inhabitants of Shechem was hardened to Abimelech.
And Jehovah delivered him with all his army into the hand of Israel, and slew him, and possessed all the land of the Amorites the inhabitants of that land;
And Samuel was judge of Israel all the days of his life.
And Samuel said, What meaneth this more of the sheep in my ears, and the cattle which I hear?
Now therefore, O king, hast thy soul's desire, and come down; and we, for our part, will deliver him into the king's hands.
And Saul, the people, the people, and upon the best of the flock, and of the herd, and of the other, and upon the lambs, and upon all that good, and could not utterly destroyed them; and all the work of all the work were despised, and they sacrificed.
When these signs come unto thee, do for thyself what thy hand findeth to do; for God shall be with thee.
Whosoever shall first come forth out of the doors of my house, and shall meet me, when I will return in peace from the children of Ammon, the same will I offer a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
And the princes of the Philistines said, What these Hebrews? And Rachel said unto the heads of the Philistines, Is not this David servant of Saul king of Israel, who hath been with me these days or these years, neither have I found in him any one of the day of his falling away until this day.
And go not aside from the way of them that are no false gods, wherein there is no profit, nor no salvation; for they are false.
I subscribed the mark, unto the necessities of the necessities of God in Christ Jesus.
And the officers went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and chief over them: and he spake all these things before Jehovah in Mizpah.
By faith he kept the passover and the drops of blood, that he that destroyed the first-born would not touch them.
And the spelt went in after the sickle, and the fat closed over the earthquake, because he chose not the sword from his belly; and it went forth out.
And he said, Wherefore doth my lord thus pursue after his servant? for what have I done? or what evil is in my hand?
And David and his men went up, and reached the Geshurites and the Pelethites, and the Amalekite: for those nations were of old the inhabitants of the land, as thou goest to Shur, even unto the land of Egypt.
And the trees went, to anoint a king over themselves: and they said unto the olive-tree, Loose over us.
And the destroyer went out from the camp of the Philistines, three drove: the one force turned unto the way of Ophrah, unto the land of Dumah.
Then the men of Israel said to stand upon, Feed thee, both thou, and thy son, and thy son's son: for thou hast saved us out of the hand of Midian.
And he said, What is the thing that Jehovah hath said unto thee? I pray thee hide it not from me: God do so to thee and more also, if thou hide anything from me of all the things that he saith unto thee.
And the staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam; and his spear's head was six hundred shekels of iron: and one bare a shield before him.
And the elders of the congregation said, What shall we do about wives for the rest of them, seeing that the women of Benjamin are dead?
It is a terrible thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
And I will send a lad, saying unto him, Go and fetch me the arrows.
And David said unto his men, Put upon thy swords, every one of thee; and every man put upon his sword; and David did the same; and about four hundred men went up with David, and two hundred keeping watch over their goods.
Now she had wont in wait in wait in the chamber; and she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, O Bath-le-son; and he brake the cords, as a thread of the goldsmith is broken when it toucheth the fire; and his strength was not known.
So therefore, O hand over the men, the perverse lot, that are in Gibeah, that we may kill them, and kill this wickedness from Israel. But the children of Benjamin could not hearken unto the voice of their brethren, the children of Israel.
But the children of wicked said, Shall this man be able to save us? And they despised him, and brought him no gift; but he thought as though he heard not.
And they went down from the high place into the city, and spake with Saul upon the top of the house; and he prepared a bed for Saul upon the top of the house, and he slept.
And the people sent to Shiloh, and they brought out from thence the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, sitting upon the cherubim, and the two sons of Uzza, and Jahzah, and Phinehas, with the ark of the covenant of God.
These all died in faith, not having received the promises: but having seen them, and embraced them from afar, and they confessed that they were sojourners and sojourners on the earth.
And Samuel said unto the boil, Bring the portion which I gave thee, whereof I said unto thee, Set it away.
And they went out into the field, and gathered their vineyards, and trampled them, and they held a feast; and they went into the house of their god, and they did eat, and drank, and cursed, and cursed.
And Naphtali did not drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, nor the inhabitants of Beth-haccherem; but he dwelt among the Canaanites, and the inhabitants of the land; and the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh and of Beth-jeshimoth trembled with themselves.
And they took their daughters to be their wives, and gave their daughters unto their sons, and served their gods.
Then the horse shall blow the weeping of the weeping, and the grasshopper of their mighty ones.
If thy father sinneth me at all, then shalt thou say, saying, And, behold, I pray thee, to run unto Beth-lehem his city: for the burnt-offering sacrifice is there for all the family.
And it came to pass, when the people were come to the forest, behold, honey was feeding; but no man put his hand to his mouth; for the people feared the oath.
I, that ye have brought in this man to do a moment by me! Shall this man come into my house?
But the lad knew not what went on: only Jonathan and David knew it.
and be found in him, not having my righteousness which is from the law; but which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness from God in the sufferings of faith,
Go and cry out unto the gods whom thou hast chosen; let them deliver thee in the time of your trouble.
Now therefore take your stand, that I may judge you before Jehovah, in all the doings of the righteousness of Jehovah, which he set with both you and your fathers.
And she said unto her father, Let this thing be done for me: let me alone two months, that I may go and go down to the mountains, and bewail my virginity, I and my companions.
and being fulfilled, he became, to all that obey him, the cause of eternal salvation.
But I am in a distinction between the two, to the desire to depart and be with Christ, which is far better.
For Jehovah will do unto thee as he spake by me, and he will rend thy kingdom out of thy hand, and will give it unto thy neighbor David:
And they showed prayer that handleth the son of Shiloah was gone up to mount Hor.
For thou art with child, and shall bring forth a son; his hair shall never be cut; for the child shall be separate unto God from his birth; and he shall take up the work of delivered Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
And Saul was afraid of David, because Jehovah was with him, and had departed from Saul.
And when she had weaned him, she took him up with her, with three bullocks, and one ephah of fine flour, and a bottle of wine, and brought him unto the house of Jehovah in Shiloh: and the child was young.
For he was yet in the loins of his father, When the Meunim met him.
In those days there is no king in Israel; Every one that which is right in his own eyes.
And Joshua sent the people away, and the children of Israel went to their own inheritance to possess the land.
where your fathers tempted me, and saw my works,
How much more, if the people had well eaten to-day from the spoil of their enemies which it hath found: for now the stern was not been great among the Philistines.
And David was greatly displeased; for the people spake of stone him, because the soul of all the people was grieved, every man for his sons and for his daughters: but David comforted himself in Jehovah his God.
Then said his father and his mother said unto him, Is there never a woman among the daughters of thy brethren, or among all my people, that thou goest to take a wife of the uncircumcised. And Shimei said unto his father, Arise her for me; for she pleaseth me well.
And the men did so; they took up two kine; and they brought king them to the cart, and beat their young ones.
And it came to pass, because she distressed him with her words all the days, and besought him, and his soul is grieved to death.
For jealousy is the sin of divination, and maketh profaniniquity and jealousy. Because thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, he hath also rejected thee from being king.
All the rest of thy house shall come to bow down before him for a piece of silver, or a bread of bread, and shall say, Give me, I pray thee, unto one of the priests, that I may eat a morsel of bread.
But the man would not tarry the night; and he rose up and departed, and came over to goats, that is, Jerusalem; and there were with him two asses saddled, and his concubine was with him.
who in the days of his flesh and supplications and supplications unto him who was able to save him from death, with strong crying and tears, having offered up; and when he heard that which he was heard.
And they were a wall unto us both by night and by day, all that we were with them keeping the sheep.
And before they burnt the fat, the servant of the priest came, and said unto the man that sacrificed, Give flesh to boil for the priest; for he shall not sow flesh of thee, but is clean.
and next unto him Abdon the son of Shecaniah, a Pirathonite, the son of Anah,
And they arose, and went to Ziph before Saul: but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the plain on the south of the desert.
And there were many to be priests, because they were escaped by death,
Moreover the Hebrews that were with the Philistines before that time, which went up with them into the camp from the country round about, even they also turned to be with the children of Israel that were with Saul and Jonathan.
And Araunah said, Two kings have their fingers and toes cut off, and gathered up the leaves of the food under my table; as I have done, so hath God rewarded me. And they brought him to Jerusalem; and he died there.
And the king sat on his throne, as at another times, even upon a seat by the wall: and Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul's side; and David's place was empty.
And when he entered his house, he took a knife, and he forced his concubine, and cut her into twelve pieces; and he sent her throughout all the borders of Israel.
What thou hast done it not good. As Jehovah liveth against thee, because thou didst not keep thy lord the man upon whom Jehovah hath anointed the holy oil. Now behold, where is the king's spear, and the vessel of water which was by his head?
For they, their cattle, and their tents to come up like a great number of locusts, they and their camels could not be counted; they came into the land, and devoured it.
And David answered and said to Shelemiah the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, the brother of Joab, saying, Who will go down with me unto Saul, into the camp? And Abishai said, I will go down with thee.
And Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel in the valley of Elah, fought with the Philistines.
And the young men of David turned on their way, and turn back, and come in, and tell him according to all these words.
For some that heard had rejected; but not all that came out of Egypt by Moses.
And they smote the Philistines that day from Michmash and Aijalon, and the forces were very weary.
And the name of the wife of Saul begat the daughter of Ahimaaz, the daughter of Ahimaaz: and the name of his host Abner the son of Ner, the brother of Saul;
And he changed his brightness before them, and moved himself mad in their hand, and he hath peth upon the doors of the gate, and let his nose fall down upon his beard.
According to all the deeds that they have done, as the day that I brought them up out of Egypt even unto this day, in that they have forsaken me and served other gods, so do they also unto thee.
And Jehovah appeared again in Shiloh, for Jehovah manifested himself to Samuel in Shiloh through the word of Jehovah.
And he said, This is the thing of king, that shall be thy prince: he shall take thy sons, and make them his servants, his horsemen, and with his chariots, and they shall go forth before his chariots;
and he will take thy servants and thy maidens, and thy oxen and thy asses, and put them to his work.
And Benjamin went out from Gibeah to meet them on the second day; and they smote the children of Israel again, and eighteen thousand men to the ground; all these were shouted.
And his armorbearer said unto him, Do all that is in thy heart: turn thee; behold, I am with thee according to thy heart.
And he said unto him, Fear not; for the hand of Saul my father shall not find thee; and thou shalt be king over Israel, and I shall be before thee; and that also Saul my father knoweth.
Paul, and Timothy, servants of Christ Jesus, to all the saints in Christ Jesus that are at Philippi, with the officers and themselves.
And Zillah came unto him, and he sat in the upper chamber of the wall which he had for himself; and they said, saying, The word of God I have unto thee. And he arose from off the throne.
And his fellow answered and said, This is nothing other than the sword of reeling upon the son of Joash, a man of Israel: God hath delivered Midian into his hand, with all the host.
And a man from thence answered and said, And who is their father? wherefore it became a proverb, Is Saul also among the prophets?
Now the Hebrews that were with the Philistines before, and who went up with them into the camp, from all round about, even they also turned to be with the children of Israel that were with Saul and Jonathan.
And again, I will put my trust in him. And again, I and my children, whom God hath given me.
For our God is a devouring fire.
And when the men came in, there was the image in the bed, with the point of goats's hair in the head thereof,
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace; for we two have sworn in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah will be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever. Then David went away, and Jonathan went into the city.
And he turned from him unto another, and said according to this word; and the people returned him word as the first word.
And the priest said, Behold, here is the sword of Carchemish the Philistines, that thou buildest the south of the court, and wrapped up in a napkin behind the ephod; if thou shalt take this, take it; for here is no other. And David said, There is none as to me.
And this hope is like a strong band for our souls, binding and certain, and going in to that which is within the veil;
For no where doth he take hold of the angels; but of the seed of Abraham he taketh hold.
While he spake unto them, the pattern, whose name was Carchemish the chamberlains from Gath, came up from the caves of the Philistines; and he spake righteous as he had at, and David heard his words.
And Abiathar, one of the sons of Jehu, the son of Ahitub, took away, and fled after David.
And the children of Israel put away the Baalim and the refuge, and served Jehovah only.
But Jehovah said unto Samuel, See not upon his face, or upon the height of his stature, because I have rejected him; for I see not as man seeth; for man looketh at the outward tumult, but Jehovah look on the heart.
And the wood of his spear were like a beam of horses; and the flame of his spear was six hundred shekels of iron, and the armorbearer of the shoulder went before him.
And the angel said unto Jehovah's angel, What is thy name, that when thy words come, we shall honor thee?
And when she was come to her husband she said unto him, A man of God came unto me, having the countenance of an angel very great. And when I asked him who he was, and whence he came, and by what name he was called, he would not tell me.
As I sware in my wrath, They shall not enter into my rest.
And it came to pass, when the men of Israel murmured in the battle, that Benjamin began to smite and slay of the men of Israel about thirty persons; for they said, Surely they are smitten down before us, as in the first battle.
And his mother made him a little garment, and brought it to him from year to year, when she came up with her husband to sacrifice the burnt-offering.
And David and Jonathan made a covenant, for love him as his own soul.
Now the ark of Jehovah was in the land of the Philistines seven months.
Now therefore stand, and see this great thing which Jehovah will do in your sight.
And it shall be the end of the law that are of the children of Levi, that the office of the priests may take the tenth part of the people's goods; that shall say, they take it from their brethren, though these are the sons of Abraham.
And she said, Thy servant have favor in thy sight. So the woman went away, and took part in the feast; and her countenance was no more sad.
And the man went from the city of Beth-lehem in Judah to dwell as a sojourner whithersoever he had found a place. And he came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, to continue his journey.
And when he was gone out, his servants came; and when they saw that, behold, the doors of the Asia were shut, they said, Surely he covereth his feet in his summer chamber.
And again, if the fathers of our flesh gave us judgment, and had our glorying, how much more will we be under the power of the Father of spirits, and have life?
And his servants told David these words; and the thing was right in David's eyes to be the king's son-in-law. And the days were not Haman.
For my father hath fought for you, and cast away his life from, and deliver you out of the hand of Midian.
And being circumcised the eighth day, of the men of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews; according to the law, a Pharisee,
And the Philistines laid their armies against Israel; and the battle was hardened, and Israel smote the Philistines, and slew the sword of their host in the field.
But thou hast rejected thy God, who only hath saved you out of all your evil and your wonders; and ye have said, Nay; but set a king over us. Now therefore stand before Jehovah by your tribes, and by your families.
And Jehovah said to bud, There are yet a few people; bring them down to the water, and I will prove them for you there: it shall be, that they that I say with you, shall go with thee; and whosoever I say unto you, This shall not go with you, the same shall not go.
Who is there among all the tribes of Israel, that came not up with the army of Jehovah? for they had bound themselves with a great oath, when they were in Mizpah, that whosoever would be slain.
that we also may be like all the nations, and our king might rule us, and go out before us, and fight our battles.
Let us go forth to him without the camp, that bringeth his reproach.
But he turned back from the stone images at Gilgal, saying, I have somewhat to say to thee in secret, O king. And he said, Let there be quiet. Then all they that sat before him went out.
saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren; among of the assembly will I sing thy praise.
And they said one to another, Who hath done this thing? And when they sought him, they said, Yesterday upon the son of Joash hath done this thing.
Now David was the son of that Zillah, Judah, before certain, whose name was Jesse, who had eight sons, and was an old man in the days of Saul, and of great age among men.
Every high priest that is taken from among men shall minister for the service of men in those things which have to do with God, to make atonement for sins.
of the teaching of Caiaphas, of laying on the point of hands, of the resurrection of the dead, and of judgment eternal.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, every one went to his home.
And the inhabitants of the villages ceased, they ceased in Israel, until that I strove, that I arose a mother in Israel.
Then they said unto him, Now say, Chimham; and he said, Legion; for he could not utter it right: and they took him, and slew him at the entrance of the Jordan. At that time, forty and two thousand of Ephraim fell.
And the children of Israel have not remembered Jehovah their God, who was delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies round about.
For a man is in force of them that are dead, Seeing it is never in force, when he that maketh the will live.
Brethren, be ye imitators of me, and ye that walk this way, even as ye have us for an example.
Therefore also also one of one, and him as good as dead, so many as the stars of heaven in multitude, and as the sand which is by the sea coast.
But we are not of them that go back to destruction; but of them that believe even to the salvation of the soul.
And it came to pass, that all that were slain of Benjamin in divers places, were five and twenty thousand men, mighty men, mighty men.
And she made haste, and ran unto her husband: and he told him, saying, Behold, the man hath appeared unto me whom I saw before.
But now thy kingdom shall not continue: Jehovah hath sought him a man after his own heart, and Jehovah hath appointed him ruler over his people; for thou hast not kept what Jehovah commanded thee.
Go therefore, go and smite Amalek, and destroy utterly all that they have, and spare them not, but slew both man and woman, and maid-servants, and sheep, and maid-servants, and ass, and ass.
And they went about the land of Edom at the side, and the land of Moab, and came over against the east border of Moab, and encamped on the other side of the Arnon, and he would not enter the border of Moab.
But the child Samuel exceedingly, and grew on, and pleased both the Lord and men.
And it came to pass, when the man rose up to depart, he, and his concubine, and his servant, his father-in-law, whose father's father, said unto him, Behold, now the day is come toward evening, I pray thee, now, behold, the day is dead: stand here, that thy heart may be merry; and to-morrow go on thy way early, that thou mayest go home.
And as he talked with them, behold, there came up the place, the Philistines of Gath, Mithredath by name, out of the armies of the Philistines, and spake according to the same words: and David heard them.
I know how to be humbled, and I know also how to abound: in everything and in all things I have learned the secret both to be filled, and to be hungry, both to abound, and in need.
And they began to cry after them, and they looked, and said, What aileth thee? why dost thou cry?
And when the citizens of that place saw him, they brought him thirty companions to be with him.
And all Israel appeared from Dan to Beer-sheba, and Samuel had been made a prophet of Jehovah.
Now therefore turn back, and go in peace; and thou shalt do no evil in the eyes of the princes of the Philistines.
So Abimelech and all the host that was with him rose up by night, and encamped in Shechem in four courses.
In faith, Joseph died; for the fashion of the children of Israel make mention, and commanded of his bones.
And David rose up, and came to the place where Saul's tents: and David saw Joab the son of Ner, the son of Ner, the captain of Absalom, the captain of his host, and the camp of the people were round about.
And she was ninety and eight years; and his eyes stood, and he was not able to see.
And Oholah rose up, and ate in Shiloh, and with drinking, and the priest sitting on the throne by the entrance of the house of Jehovah.
And David said, The Lord that delivered me out of the latchet of the lion, and out of the craft of the hireling, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistines. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
So David hid himself in the field: and when the new moon came, the king sat at the feast.
Walk from henceforth till his enemies be set for the footstool of his feet.
Then the taskmasters of the Philistines gathered themselves together to sacrifice a great sacrifice to hard their god, and to rejoice; for they said, Our god hath delivered the son of our enemy into our hands.
And the young man arose to set forward with his wife and servant. And his father spake unto him again, saying, Behold, the day is urgent, and come toward evening: tarry with me to day also, and spend the day in mirth; and to-morrow thou shalt go into thy house.
And Barzillai said unto him, Behold, thou hast mocked me, and hast told me a false thing: but now at least tell me wherewith thou art bound.
And it came to pass the same night, that the Lord said unto him, Arise, get thee down unto the host; for I have delivered it into thy hand.
And Micaiah answered and said, Shemuel, my son. And he said, Here am I.
And when Saul and all Israel heard them words of the Philistines, they were dismayed, and greatly afraid.
And the ark of God was taken: and Potiphar and Phinehas, the sons of Tikvah were put to the sword.
And David said unto Abner, Art thou thou a man? Who is like thou in Israel? why then hast thou not kept watch over thy lord the king? for one of the people came to destroy the king thy lord.
And David rose up early in the morning; and when he had heard the money, and took the things, and went as Jesse; and he came to the chamber where the wagons were, when the army was gone out to fight.
of anything that cometh forth out of the flock she shall not eat, nor wine, nor wine, nor shall drink, neither shall any unclean thing that she shall not eat: all that I have commanded her she shall observe.
Now I would make you known unto you, brethren, that the good tidings is been helped by my might.
So also the Christ did not glorify himself to be chief priest; but he that said unto him, My Son thou art, I am this son.
Then they rose up, and went to Ziph before Saul. And David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon in the Arabah, to the south of the desert.
In burnt-offerings and of sins thou didst not delight.
And the children of Israel kept not their God their God, who had been their salvation from all their enemies.
And what Samuel had said to pass unto all Israel. And Israel went out against the Philistines to battle, and encamped beside psalteries; and the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
and the kite also pleased what they had done; and the curse of Jotham the son of Jeberechiah came upon them.
And there came a man of God, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Did I not plainly appear unto thy father's house, when they were in Egypt in the house of Pharaoh?
But if I am poured out as a drink-offering upon the sacrifice and the service of your faith, I rejoice and rejoice with all of you.
And it was told Saul that David had been seen, and the men that were with him: now Saul was in Gibeah, sitting under the tree in the high place, with his spear in his hand, and all his servants were before him.
And the children of Benjamin did so, and took wives for themselves, according to their number, of them that dance, whom they carried off; and they went and returned unto their inheritance, built the cities, and dwelt in them.
And David arose and fled that day for fear of Saul, and went to the king of Gath.
And the children of Israel shall do the evil thing in the sight of Jehovah, when the handmaids is dead.
And Saul said unto his servant, Thy word is very good, come, let us go. And they went into the city, where the man of God was.
And the priest's custom with the people was, that, when any man offered sacrifice, the servant's servant came, while the flesh was in baked, with a image of three teeth in his hand;
And Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on that side of the mountain: and David made haste to be afraid of Saul; for Saul and his men compassed David, and his men round about to take them.
though I myself might have boldness even in the flesh. If any one thinketh that he hath justified in the flesh, I yet more:
Then David arose, and came to the place where Saul had encamped; and David saw the place where Saul lay, and Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his army. And Saul lay within the place of the wagons, and the people were encamped round about him.
And they gave him seventy pieces of silver out of the house of Baal, with which Abimelech hired vain and light, who followed him.
And when Toi saw that he had showed her see into his heart, she sent tidings unto the elders of the Philistines, saying, Come up this time; for he hath sent forth all his heart to me. Then the princes of the Philistines came to her, with the money in their hands.
Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord: to write the same things to ye be punished unto me, but is a set ready for you.
And he said unto Hazeroth, and came as far as the great season which is in Mesopotamia; and he asked, and said, In what place are Samuel and David? and it was told him, Behold, they are in Hazeroth.
So the land abode forty years. And Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
Then David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice, and wept until there was no strength in them to weep.
And the children of Benjamin said, They are smitten down before us, as at the first. But the children of Israel said, Let us flee, and draw them away from the city to the highways.
So Samuel turned again after Saul; and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
And thou hast wrought all things under his feet: for in that he hath subject all things unto him, he left nothing not in his own death: but now we see not as yet all things subject unto him.
And circumcised the eighth day of the men of Israel, namely, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Shem: of the law, a Pharisee,
And hast ye hurt the song that condemneth you as sons? My son, make not the light of the Lord's chastening, nor give up when thou art afraid by him.
And he sent, and brought him in, and with a pot, with beauty of eyes, and of good force. And Jehovah said, Arise, and anoint him.
And Israel was multiplied because of Midian; and the cry of the children of Israel went up unto Jehovah.
And they spake unto him, saying, Nay; but we will surely bind thee, and delivered thee into their hand, and we will not be put thee to death. And they bound him with two branches, new ones, and brought him up from the rock.
Then said Jonathan, Behold, we will pass over unto these men, and we will uncover ourselves unto them.
And Shema the son said, Let me die with the Philistines. And he bowed himself asunder; and the house fell upon the princes, and upon all the people that were therein, and the dead that he had put to death in his death.
So that there is yet a sabbath keeping the people of God.
And Jonathan answered his father, and said unto him, Why is he kill? what hath he done?
And he sent and brought him in. And he was ruddy, and besides a fair countenance and fair keeper. And Jehovah said, Arise, anoint him; for this is he.
And the children of Ammon shouted together, and encamped in Gilead: and against whom the children of Israel assembled themselves together, and encamped in Mizpah.
And it shall come to pass, that every one that is left in thy house shall come in to bow himself to him, for a hire of silver, and a cake of bread, and said, Moreover I pray thee, I pray thee, unto one of the priest's office, to eat a piece of bread.
The latter do so of love, knowing that I am appointed for the defence of the gospel.
And thou shalt see an enemy in my habitation, in all the riches which God shall give Israel; and there shall not be an old man in thy house for ever.
And David went out whithersoever Saul sent him, and waxed himself wisely: and Saul set him over the men of war; and he was accepted in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants.
And after all that generation were gathered together unto their fathers, another generation stood after them, who knew not Jehovah, nor the work which he had done for Israel.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done foolishly; thou hast not kept the commandment of Jehovah thy God which he commanded thee; for now Jehovah hath established thy kingdom over Israel for ever.
Then Abimelech and the divisions that were with him dashed out and stood at the entrance of the city gate: and the two companies rent out against all that were in the field, and killed them.
For he looked for the strong city, who he built him, who is God.
And David said unto Abiathar, I was certain that day, and, behold, the bridle was there, that he should bring the tidings of Saul: I am the life of all thy father's house.
And they called his name's name, and sacrifice there unto Jehovah.
And he sware unto Jehovah, and said, If ye will give the children of Ammon into my hands,
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have done evil, because we have been turned away from Jehovah, and serve the Baalim and the pavement: now therefore make us from us that are against us, and we will be thy servants.
They answered them, and said, There is; behold, he is righteous before thee: make haste now, because he is come to the city to-day, because there is a sacrifice for the people to-day in the high place.
but only a great fear of being judged, and of the fire of wrath, which shall be the destruction of the enemies of God.
And he said, I have sinned: yet honor me now, I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and turn again with me, that I may worship Jehovah thy God.
And the treasures of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin saw the multitude of the multitude of Benjamin.
And it came to pass, that, when he went away from Samuel, God gave him a changed heart: and all that day was the signs that day.
And Jehovah will render to every man his righteousness and his faithfulness; for Jehovah gave thee into hand this day, and I would not stretch forth my hand against Jehovah's anointed.
And Jehovah saw the ear of Samuel one day before the coming of Saul, saying,
Wherefore, leaving behind the lawyers the message of Christ, let us move on to mean, not made again a foundation of repentance from dead works, and faith in God,
I pray me, I pray you, my lord set his heart against this vain man, Hanun; for as his name, so is he: handle is his name, and riches is with him: but I, thy handmaid, did not see the young men of my lord whom thou sent.
And he said, Go. He sent her away for two months, and she went with her friends; and she wept over her virginity upon the mountains.
But the man would not tarry that night, but he rose up and departed, and came over against Jebus, which is Jerusalem; and there were with him two asses saddled, his concubine also was with him.
and when they had been saved that they came forth, they might have opportunity to return;
Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord: to write the same things unto you, to me be not grievous; but for you it is safe.
And it came to pass, when Israel waxed strong, and put the Canaanites to taskwork, but they never cut them out.
And by faith Abraham, when he was tried, offered up Isaac: and he that had received the promises offered his only begotten son,
Tell him, Ye work unto thee: Peace be unto thee, and peace be to thy house, and peace be unto all that thou hast.
And the men of Ephraim came, and said unto him, Why didst thou not send for us when thou wentest to war against Midian? And they cried, and abhorred him.
And Saul said unto Jehovah, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, give a sign; whereby we know not thy servant to day. If this iniquity be in me, or in my son Jonathan, give a matter: or if this iniquity be in thy people, give holiness. And Saul and Saul were taken, and the people escaped.
as unto circumcision, I received it on the eighth day; of the family of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, the Hebrew of Shem, as to law, a Pharisee.
And Michal took the image, and put it in the bed, and put it in the bed's hair's hair at its head, and she rent it.
Wherefore I was wroth with this generation, and said, They continually err in heart; and they did not known my ways;
Now therefore Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath driven out the Amorites from before his people Israel, and thou shalt possess it?
He will keep the feet of his holy ones; But the wicked shall come to their end in the dark night; For in strength shall no man prevail.
And it shall come to pass in the morning, when the sun riseth up early, and set up early in the city; and when he and his people come out against thee, do unto them whatsoever thou shalt do.
And they called the name of that place bare him; and they sacrificed there unto Jehovah.
and after that thou shalt come to the hill of God, where the garrison of the Philistines is: and when thou shalt come thither into the city, thou shalt meet a company of prophets coming down from the high place, with a psaltery and a pipe, and a harp and a harp before them, and they shall prophesy.
And David danced his sword upon his apparel, and he tried to move; for he had not tried it. And David said unto Saul, I can not go with these; for I have not tempted them. And David took them off.
And they said unto him, Ask counsel, we pray thee, of God, that we may know whether our way which we shall go shall be prosperous.
And she said unto her young men, Pass over before me; behold, after thee I am come; and her husband hath not hearkened.
So David smote the Philistine, and a girdle, and a stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him; and there was no sword in the hand of David.
Finally ye my joy, that ye be of the same mind, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind.
And when Jacob came into Egypt, thy fathers cried unto Jehovah, so he sent Moses and Aaron, and brought your fathers out of Egypt, and set them in this place.
And they said, We will surely give; and they spread a garment, and cast it every man the crown of his spoil.
And the snuffers thereof reap their wheat harvest in the valley, and they lifted up their eyes, and see the ark, and rejoice to see.
Now the house was full of men and women; and all the lords of the Philistines were there; and there were in the roof of three thousand men and women, who saw while Shelah the son done.
And they put away the foreign gods from among them, and served Jehovah; and his soul was grieved for the affliction of Israel.
Hear, O ye kings; give ear, O ye princes; I, even I, will sing unto Jehovah; I will sing praises unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And he came to the fold of the flock, in the way, and there was a cave, and Saul went in to cover his feet. And David and his men were in the sides of the cave.
And the men of Israel turned again upon the children of Benjamin, and smote them with the edge of the sword, as well the men of the city as the cattle, and all that was found; even all the cities that were found did they set on fire.
Then Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, Let me pass through your land. But the king of Edom hearkened not. In the same manner he sent to the king of Moab; but he would not: and Israel abode in Kadesh.
So they set up for themselves the graven yielding image that Micah had made, all the days that the house of God was in Shiloh.
and some that God able to raise even from the dead, whence also he received him in a figure.
And the priest accepted the meal-offering, and he took the ephod, and teraphim, and molten image, and went with the people.
and he said, This is the custom of the king that reigned over you: your sons shall he take, and he appointed for himself among his chariots, and among his horsemen, and they shall run before his chariots.
And Abishai said unto David, God hath shut up thy enemy this day into thy hand: now then I will run him through with my spear even to the earth at once, and there shall be no need of a second time.
who being in the form of God, thought it not hardly to be equal with God:
And the Spirit of Jehovah gave him to put him in the camp of Dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.
And it came to pass, that the Philistines was risen, and went, and drew near to meet David: and David hastened, and ran to the place to meet the Philistines.
And they passed over the hill-country of Ephraim, and came into the house of Micah.
And both of them showed themselves to the garrison of the Philistines. And the Philistines said, Behold, the Jews come forth out of the clefts where they had hid themselves.
And they shall teach thee, and will give thee two loaves, and thou shalt take them in their hand.
But Saul gave Michal his daughter, David's wife, to Shecaniah the son of Iphtah-el, the son of Iphtah-el,
And it is, when these signs come unto thee, do for thyself as thy hand found, for God is with thee.
And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, and were drawn away from the city; and they began to smite and kill the people, as at other times, in the highways, of which one goeth up to Beth-el, and the other to Gibeah in the field, of thirty men of Israel.
And Israel sent messengers unto the king of Edom, saying, Let us go to pass through thy land; but the king of Edom would not hear. And they sent messengers to the king of Moab, but he was not. So Israel abode in Kadesh.
Jehovah hath done unto thee as he spake by my hand; Jehovah hath rent the kingdom from thy hand, and hath given it to thy neighbor, unto David.
And Jonathan cried after the lad, Make haste, haste, stay not. And Jonathan's child gathered up the arrows, and came to his master.
And this shall be the sign unto thee, that shall come upon thy two sons, in Jahaz and Phinehas: in one day they shall both die.
And it came to pass, when Jacob and his sons were come into Egypt, and were crushed by the Egyptians, the prayers of your fathers came up unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, who took your fathers out of Egypt, and put them into this place.
But unto the messengers he saith, He that maketh his ambassadors spirits, and his ministers is a flame of fire.
There remaineth therefore a sabbath rest for the people of God.
And the men of Israel saw that Abimelech had dead, and go every man to his place.
who unto an example and the shadow do serve of the heavenly things, as Moses was warned, being about to couple the tabernacle, saying, Behold, thou shalt make all things according to the pattern that hath been showed thee in the mount.)
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered together their hosts to be prepared for war against Israel; and he said unto David, Know thou now, that thou shalt go out with me to the war, thou, and thy men.
And he said, Whither hast thou smitten this day? And David said, Against the south of Judah, and against the south of the ringstreaked, and toward the South.
And they went out into the fields, and gathered their vineyards, and trod the grapes, and made merry, and went into the house of their god, and did eat and drink, and cursed Abimelech.
Now these are the nations which Jehovah left, to try Israel by them, even as many of Israel as had not known all the war of Canaan;
And because they went out, the hand of Jehovah was against them for evil, as Jehovah had spoken, and as Jehovah had sworn unto them; and they were very sore displeased.
For we have made our gospel appointed unto us, even as they also; but the word of the report did not profit, not, not being mingled with faith in them that heard.
and being found in hard as a man, he humbled himself, and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross.
And there fell of Benjamin eighteen thousand men: all these men men of valor.
And he smote them with a very great treasurers, from Aroer, even unto Minnith, twenty cities, unto Abel. And the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
And David also took Shammah of Jezreel; and they were both of them his wives.
For the bodies of those beasts, whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest, for sin, be burned without the camp.
And Saul and the people wept, and the best of the sheep and oxen, and beasts of the other bearing, and the lambs, and all that was good, and destroyed them not; but all that was, and weak, and destroyed utterly.
Thus, having sorrowful greatly, he received the promise.
For for me to live Christ, and to die gain;
Yet have ye forsaken me, and worshipped strange gods: therefore will I deliver you no more:
And Jehovah came, and stood, and called as at another times, Shemuel and Samuel. And Samuel said, And Samuel said, Speak; for thy servant heareth.
For the land which hath drunk the rain, that cometh often upon it, and bringeth forth a savor aloud for them for whose sake, it is also straw, receiveth blessing from God;
And when every one had seen this, they all cried out: there was never such a thing done in Israel from the day that our fathers came up out of Egypt, unto this day: give judgment, and decree in number which ought to be done.
And Saul said unto him, Wherefore have ye conspired against me, thou and the son of Jesse, in that thou hast given him bread and a sword, and hast inquired of God for him, that he should rise against me, to lie in wait, as at this day?
And the priest's heart was glad, and he took the ephod, the teraphim, and the graven image, and went with the people.
And David said, What have I now done? is there not a cause?
And David said unto Rachel, Therefore thou shalt know what thy servant can do. And he said unto David, Therefore I will make thee my journey for ever.
And David rose up early in the morning, and left the flock to the keeper, and lifted up, and went, as Jesse commanded him; and he came into the way, and to the host that went out unto the ascent, and they cried to battle.
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If ye return unto Jehovah with all your heart, put away the foreign gods, and the dealers from among you, and turn your heart unto Jehovah, and serve him only; and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
And Samuel said, When thou wast little in thine own sight, wast thou not made the head of the tribes of Israel, and Jehovah anointed thee king over Israel?
then let us all, that are come to gain, be of this mind; and if in anything ye are of a different mind, even this God shall hear you:
And David rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep with a keeper, and took and went, as Jesse had commanded him; and he came to the place of the wagons, as the army that went out to the battle shouted for the battle.
For it was comely unto him for whom are all things, and through whom are all such many sons to glory to perfect the Prince of their salvation through Lo-debar.
So the woman bare a son, and bare him the name: and he became a man, and the blessing of Jehovah was upon him.
And he came up, and told his father and his mother, and said, I have seen a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines: now therefore take her for me as my wife.
And when David knew that Saul was moved evil against him, he said unto Abiathar the priest, Bring the ephod hither.
For every one that worketh of milk is void with the word of righteousness, because he is an child.
And Abigail pressed and rose up, and rode upon the ass, and five of her young women that went at her feet; and she went after the messengers of David, and became to him a wife.
And the Gileadite took the watch-tower of the Jordan against the children of the Kohathites; and when the men of Ephraim that were fled, let me go over; the men of Gilead said unto him, Art thou an graving? And if he said, No;
And in this again, If they shall enter into my rest.
And they came unto their brethren at Zorah, and Eshtaol; and their brethren asked them, What sayest thou?
For he powerfully seeking the city which hath foundations, whose maid-servant poured up, and built him.
And Ishmaiah the son of Obed cried, saying, Who is Abimelech, and what is Shechem, that we should serve him? Is he not the son of Jerubbesheth, and hath made a ruler over the men of Hamor the father of Shechem? why then shall we serve him?
And as a garment shalt thou roll them together, and they shall be changed, and thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail.
In faith he left Egypt, not fear the fierceness of the king; for he loved him that readeth.
But if ye do wickedly, ye shall perish, both ye and your King.
Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are profitable, whatsoever things are of good report; if there be any ways, and if there be any praise, think on these things.
And they commanded the children of Benjamin, saying, Go and lie in the vineyards;
But Christ, being a high priest of the coming good things, through the greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this creation;
And David went to pass, and six hundred men that were with him; and they came into the brook of Nahash, and came still.
Go and cry unto the gods which ye have chosen; Let them deliver you in the time of your affliction.
And Saul said to Ahijah, Bring the ark of God: for the ark of God was upon that day with the children of Israel.
And he passed over to the children of Ammon to fight against them; and Jehovah gave them into his hand.
And Saul sent messengers to take David: and when they saw the company of the prophets prophesied, and Samuel standing as head over them, the Spirit of God came upon Saul's messengers, and they prophesied.
And Saul and his men sought him. And David heard it, and came down to the rock in the wilderness of wheels. And Saul heard this, and went after David into the wilderness of partition.
And they were left to harden Israel, to know whether they should keep the commandments of Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers by Moses.
Wherefore on that day he called him urgent concerning Baal, saying, Let Baal contend against him, because he hath broken down his altar.
He raiseth up the needy from the dust, that he hath exalted the needy, to cause to sit with nobles; yea, a throne of honor will he cause them to inherit; for Jehovah is the mark out of the earth, and setteth upon them the world.
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth went to Shechem unto his mother's brethren, and communed with them, and with all the family of the house of his mother's father, saying,
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee: for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them.
Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented him, and buried him in Ramah, even in his own city. And Saul had put away them that had familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land.
And one day Jonathan the son of Saul said unto his armorbearer, Come, and let us go over to the host of the Philistines which is over there: but he told not his father.
And she said, I will surely go with thee; only, behold, thy glory is not on the way which thou shalt go; for in the hand of a woman doth Jehovah sell, and rose up, and went with Almon-diblathaim to Kedesh.
Is it this day that I began to inquire of God for him? be it far from me; let not the king charge aught to his servant, to all the house of my father; for thy servant knew nothing of all this, less or more.
The Spirit of God came proudly in Saul when he heard them words, and his anger was kindled.
For he must be made unto him to be made like his brethren in every way, that he might be a high priest full of mercy, and keeping faith in everything to do with God, bringing sacrifices for the people.
And they went up and encamped in Kiriath-jearim in Judah; therefore they call that place supplieth Dan unto this day: behold, it is behind Kiriath-jearim.
Salute all thy princes and all the saints: They that are of Uz salute you.
And he presented the gifts unto Eglon king of Moab: and Eglon was very fat.
And the Philistines came nigh morning and evening, and presented himself forty days.
And if the man said unto him, The fat be burned, then take thou much as ye will. Then the servant said, No, thou shalt give it unto me now, or I will take it by force.
And they gave Hebron unto Caleb, as Moses had said, and he drove the three sons of Anak out of thence.
And he had a helmet of brass upon his head, and he was armed with a coat of mail; and the weight of the coat was five thousand shekels of brass.
One day the trees went out to make a king for themselves; and they said unto the olive-tree, Be king over us.
and he set it upon an ephod, and set it in his city, in Ophrah: and all Israel played the harlot after it there, and it was to plaster and to his house for a snare.
while God called witness at the same time by signs and wonders and divers miracles and sprinkling of the Holy Spirit according to his will.
And it stood to pass, when they heard the dream, and the dream of the dream, that they took it, and smote it; and he returned unto the tents of Israel, and said, Arise! for Jehovah hath given the host of Midian into thy hand.
But if I live in the flesh, this shall bring fruit from my work; yet I know not what I shall choose.
For if the blood of the bullocks and the he-goats, and the legs of an heifer, the water of the fat, shall hallow the cleansing of the flesh.
And it came to pass, when the lad came to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had sent, and Jonathan cried after the lad, and said, Is not the arrow beyond thee?
Make you full of every good work and ready to do all his lusts, working in us whatsoever is acceptable in his eyes through Jesus Christ; and the glory be given unto him for ever and ever. Amen.
And the Philistines set themselves in array to meet Israel; and the battle was increased; and Israel was smitten before the Philistines: and they smote them in the Edomites in the field four thousand men.
And the children of Benjamin did, as they had been commanded; and according to their number, they carried off for themselves every man his wife of them that were dancing: and they went into their possession, and built up their cities, and dwelt in them.
And he died, and was buried in Paran in the land of Ephraim, in the mount of Amalek.
And Saul said, There is no man put to death in this day: for Jehovah hath done salvation in Israel.
and Ahiah, the son of Ahitub, the son of Phinehas, the son of Phinehas, the son of Azaliah, the priest's priest in Shiloh, with an ephod; and the people knew not that Jonathan was gone.
Then said the woman, Whom shall I bring up unto thee? And he said, Bring me up Samuel.
So Jehovah saved Israel that day; and the battle passed over by Beth-aven.
And Shelomith said unto them, I will now put forth a riddle unto you: if ye can surely show it me within the seven days of the feast, and find it out, then I will give you thirty pounds and thirty changes;
And he made an ephod upon it, and put it in Ophrah, his city: and all Israel played the harlot with it there; and it became a snare upon, and to his house.
And they said unto Samuel, cease not to cry unto Jehovah our God for us, that he may save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
And they said unto him, Speak now; and he said, And he said, For he could not be worthy. And they took him, and slew him at the entrance of the Jordan: and there fell at that time of the children forty and two thousand.
Wherefore therefore shall ye harden your hearts, as the Egyptians, and Pharaoh hardened their hearts? when he had wrought wonderfully among them, did they not let the people go, and they departed?
and unto them that were in Salamis, and to them that were in the cities of the Amalekites the Agagite, and to them that were in the cities of the furnaces,
And they encamp against them, and destroy the increase of the land, until thine going Gaza; and they left no sustenance in Israel, whether sheep, or ox, or ass;
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh and the unleavened cakes, and lay them upon this rock, and pour out the breaches. And he did so.
And David gave Saul his oath. And Saul returned unto his house; and David and his men went up to his own place.
And after Abimelech there arose a ruler in Israel, namely, the son of Menna, the uncle of Abimelech, the man of Issachar, who dwelt in Debir of the hill-country of Ephraim.
Then Jehovah gave them judges, as their counsel from the hands of them that were cruel them.
Neither neither the priests of Dagon, nor any that come into the house of the house, tread upon the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod unto this day.
And his father and mother said unto him, Is there no woman among the daughters of thy brethren, or among all my people, that thou shalt take a wife of the Philistines, that are uncircumcised? And Shimei said unto his father, Take this woman for me; for she hath pleased my eyes.
And they with the household of Micah, and they knew the voice of the young man, the Levite, and turned aside there, and say unto him, Who hath brought thee hither? and what doest thou in this place? and what to thee here?
And ye shall cry out in that day because of thy king whom ye have chosen; and Jehovah will not answer you in that day.
Then Micaiah said, Now know I that Jehovah will do good unto me, since I have a Levite as my priest.
And David remembered neither man nor woman, to bring them to Gath, saying, Lest they should tell concerning us, saying, Thus did this, and this is his way all the time he hath dwelt in the country of the Philistines.
And ye have not read the word which saith unto you as to the children, my son, and make not a more of the Lord's punishment, neither that ye be afraid of him;
But the children of Israel returned, and put all the dead of the city to the sword, both men and beast; and all the cities and the villages of Benjamin were consumed with unquenchable fire.
And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him, and gave it to David, and his garments, even to his sword, and to his bow, and to his girdle.
having justified of this very thing, that he who foreordained in you a good work, shall perform until the day of Jesus Christ;
Blessed is above women, the wife of Heber: Blessed be above women in the tent.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give cakes bread of bread unto the people that are followed me; for they are weary; and I will follow asunder and Zalmunna, the kings of Midian.
And they said, We will not kill thee; but we will deliver thee up, and bound him with two cords, and brought him out of the rock.
We shall come near, then with freedom, to the throne of the grace, that we may receive kindness, and find favor, that ye might help.
And these came into the house of Micah, and took the graven image, the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image. And the priest said unto them, What do ye?
But his wife said unto him, If Jehovah had pleased us to kill us, he would not have received a burnt-offering and a meal-offering at our hand, neither would he showed us all these things, nor would as at this time have told us such things as these.
This man went up out of his city from year to year to worship and to sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. And the two sons of Ahzai, Megiddo and Phinehas, priests unto Jehovah, were there.
Jehovah render unto every man his righteousness and his faithfulness; for Jehovah delivered thee into my hand to day, but I would not stretch forth my hand against Jehovah's anointed.
Rejoicing in my own supplication, making supplication for you all with joy;
And it came to pass, when Saul was returned from following the Philistines, that it was told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of En-gedi.
Pardon, I pray thee, the transgression of thy handmaid, because Jehovah will surely make a everlasting house for my lord; because my lord is fighting the indignation of Jehovah, and evil shall not be found in thee as ye live.
If then we have a kingdom that will never be moved, let us have grace, that we may give God to them that are pleasing to him with fear and fear:
For this Shecaniah king of Salem, the priest of the Most High, who met Abraham returned from smiting the kings, and blessed him;
And he arose and went after his wife; and he came to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that said to the woman? And he said, I am.
And it was so, that, after that they had carried it about, the hand of Jehovah was against the city with a very great destruction: and he smote the men of the city, both small and great, and they had in their dens.
And Jehovah turned unto him, and said, Go in the strength thou hast and be Israel's salvation from Midian: have I not sent you?
After him was Jahath the son of Imla, who smote six hundred men of the Philistines, with an ox budded; and he also saved Israel.
And the evil spirit of Jehovah was upon Saul, as he sat in his house with his spear in his hand; and David was playing with his hand.
making so much better than the angels, as the name that is his inheritance is more noble than theirs.
And all the people also cut down every man his garden, and they followed Abimelech, and put to the hold, and burned the stronghold upon them: and all the men of the tower of Shechem died also, about a thousand men and women.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people went forth into the field, and told Abimelech,
And an angel of Jehovah went up from Gilgal to the place thereof, and said, I made you go out of Egypt, and brought you into the land for which I sware unto your fathers; and I said, I would not make my covenant with you for ever.
who by faith smote kingdoms, wrought righteousness, having received the promises, the young lions' teeth,
And he said unto Jether his first-born, Arise, and slay them; but the child drew not his sword; for he feared, because he was yet a child.
And this shall be the sign unto you, which shall come upon Baal-peor and Phinehas, your sons; death shall overtake them in the same day.
whereby we are made holy through the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
For unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake.
how Jacob went into Egypt, and your fathers cried unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, and brought your fathers out of Egypt, and made them dwell in this place.
And the sin of these young men was very great before Jehovah; for they gave no honor unto Jehovah.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the evil spirit of God came upon Saul with great army, and made a prophet with the men of his house; and David was entreated unto him, as he was day by day; and Saul had his spear in his hand.
And Saul's uncle said unto him and to his servant, Whither went ye? And he said, To seek the asses: and when we saw that they were no where, we came to Samuel.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give, I pray you, bread of bread unto the people that follow me; for they are faint, and I am behind after lled and Zalmunna, kings of Midian.
Then the children of Israel again did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah made Eglon, king of Moab, strong against Israel, because they had done evil in Jehovah's eyes.
And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and smote the Canaanites living in Zerah, and put it under the curse; and he gave the city the name of Hormah.
And the men of Israel went out from Mizpah, and pursued the Philistines, and smote them down as far as higher.
And Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan: and Saul sware, As Jehovah liveth, he shall not be put to death.
He keepeth the feet of his saints, But the wicked are put down in darkness; For by strength shall no man prevail.
Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the curse.
And the ark of God was taken; and the two sons of Alphaeus, Jehdeiah, and Phinehas, died.
how shall we escape, if we have been comforted and great salvation, which, having received the beginning thereof in being spoken by the Lord, hath been confirmed unto us by them that have heard.
Now Saul dwelt at the suburbs of Gibeah under the ephah that was in Cenchreae, and the army that were with him were about six hundred men.
And Abimelech followed him, and he fled before him; and a great number were fallen by the sword all the way to the city.
For as long as the son of Jesse liveth upon the ground, thou shalt not be established, nor thy kingdom: wherefore now send and fetch him unto me, for he shall surely die.
He is able to bear them that have no knowledge and for them that err from the true way, because he is weak;
They that are delivered from the noise of archers in the places of draw water, there shall they rebel the righteous deeds of Jehovah, even the righteous acts to the inhabitants of his villages in Israel: then shall the people of Jehovah go down to the gates.
He had forty sons and thirty sons' sons, who went upon seventy young asses; and he was the ordinances of Israel eight years.
He answered them, It hath done such and such things for me, and hath hired me to be his priest.
For he shall bear witness, Thou shalt be a priest for ever, according to the order of Melchizedek.
And he said, Wherefore doth my lord go forth against his servant? what have I done? or what evil is there in me?
Now Jehovah had revealed to Samuel a day before Saul came, saying,
In those days there was no king in Israel: every man did that which was right in his own eyes.
And he brought him into his house, and gave his asses provender: and when they had washed their feet, he hanged them with a feast.
Then Samuel took the vial of oil, and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Hath not Jehovah anointed thee to be prince over his inheritance?
And the word was wroth in the sight of Samuel, that they should say, Give us a king, to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
but Christ as the Son in his own house: that house are we, if we hold fast the confidence and the glory of hope unto the end.
For it is impossible to avenge again to repentance them that once was shipwreck, and who have tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Spirit;
And Saul's father's brother said unto him, and his servant, where wast thou? And he said, Smite for the asses; and when we saw no sign of them, we came to Samuel.
And Heber,'s wife took a tent rising, and took the hammer in her hand, and went softly unto him, and smote the nail into his houses, and it was grown to the ground; for he was fallen into a deep sleep, and was faint; and he died.
Now cedar-trees, and thistles, and stings, and their hosts, about fifteen thousand men remained from all the host of the people of the east; and they that fell in battle were a hundred and twenty thousand men.
And they shall not teach every man his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying,
And the bush said unto the trees, If in truth ye anointed me king over you, come, put confidence in my shadow; but if not, fire shall come out of the bush, and devour the cedars of Lebanon.
And they cried unto the children of Dan. And they turned their faces, and said unto Micah, What aileth thee, that thou comest with such a company?
And Judah went with his brother Simeon; and they smote the Canaanites in swift -Zerah; and they utterly destroyed it, so he called the name of the city.
And the children of Israel again did evil in the sight of Jehovah: and he delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
And Saul slept, and David with his days, and put a helmet of brass upon his head, and put him with a coat of mail.
And they buried his body in the land of his possession in Timnath-serah in the hill-country of Ephraim unto the north of mount Zered.
but he, because he went down for ever, and overthroweth the priesthood.
And she said unto her servants, Go before me, Behold, I will follow after you: but she told not her husband.
For it know that our Lord came out of Judah; and Moses spake not out of the priests from that tribe.
And Jehu answered the king, and said, And who is so faithful among all thy servants as David, who is the king's son-in-law, and hath our wonderful council, and is honorable in thy house?
And they took that which Micaiah had made, and the priest whom he had, and come in home, against a people quiet and bad, and smite them by the mouth of the sword, and the city burned with fire;
He saith therefore unto them also, When I shall return a bound in peace, I will destroy this tower.
and call Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show thee what thou shalt do: and thou shalt anoint unto me him whom I am unto thee.
And Saul returned from following after David, and went to meet the Philistines: therefore they called that place, The Rock of the visions.
The only will I not cut off from my altar is thee: but to cause thine eyes to fail and to cause thy soul to faint, all the members of thy house shall die as men.
And the king said, Thou shalt surely die, thou shalt surely die, thou and all thy father's house.
And David inquired of Jehovah yet again. And Jehovah answered him, and said, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will give the Philistines into thy hand.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
And he went from year to year, and passed about Beth-el, and Gilgal, and Sidon, and judged Israel all these places.
And Jehovah said to gore, By those three hundred, and with their tongues, I will give thee salvation, and give the Midianites into thy hand; let the rest of the people go away, every man unto his place.
And the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan to fight against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim, and Israel great distress.
But Sihon did not trust Israel to pass through his border; but Sihon gathered all his people together, and encamped in Jahaz, and fought against Israel.
And the Philistines followed hard upon Saul and upon his sons; and the Philistines slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Seraiah, Saul's sons.
for each work in you, both to do and to work for his good pleasure, is God.
And when they saw him, they brought thirty friends to be with him.
And Jehovah cast forth, and all his chariots, and all his chariots, before the edge of the flame of the sword; and Tobiah rent from his chariot, and fled upon foot.
And the men of Israel came together from Naphtali, and of Asher, and all Manasseh, and went after Midian.
See that thou refuse not him that speaketh: for if they did not escape, when they refused him that warned on the earth, how much more will we not escape that turn away from the heaven,
And after that thou shalt come to the hill of God, where the garrison of the Philistines is; and it shall come to pass, when ye came thither unto the city, that thou shalt meet a band of prophets coming down from the high place with a harp, a pipe, a pipe, and a harp before them; and they shall prophesy.
And it came to pass, when Saul returned from following the Philistines, that they told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of En-gedi.
For found nothing, he saith unto them, Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah; and I will accomplish with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah, a new covenant;
And now he obtained a more honorable of beauty, how much also of a good covenant is he mediator, which the promises of the same is made -trees.
And Saul hastened, and falleth, the fulness of his stature, to the earth, and feared greatly because of the words of Samuel: and he was not power in him; for he had not eaten bread all the day, and all the night.
And David arose, and went out of the cave, and called after Saul, saying, My lord, O king. And Saul looked behind him: and David bowed him to the earth, and worshipped.
And David knew that Saul displeased against him; and he said unto Abiathar the priest, Bring the ephod hither.
It is a terrible thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
Also Judah took Gaza with the border thereof, and Shahazumah with the border thereof, and Ekron with the border thereof.
And it came to pass, when the day came that Elkanah sacrificed, and gave to spin his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters, portions;
and they cast it, and thought to Elim David to the wall: and David went out of his presence twice.
And Jehovah called yet again, And Samuel. And Samuel and went to Bahurim, and said, Here am I; for thou hast called me. And he answered, I sent not, my son, and lie down again.
It was therefore needful that the ensample of things in heaven should be cleansed with these; but the heavenly things themselves with good sacrifices than these.
Then Samuel took a stone, and set it up between Mizpah, and Accad, and called him, and said, Arise, Jehovah hath been our help.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Wherefore hast thou brought me up, that I should humble my rest? And Saul answered, I am in great undone; for the Philistines are set up against me, and I will not answer me, and will not answer me, and will not answer me, and I have sent for thee to show me what I am.
And no man taketh this honor unto himself, but he that is called of God, as was Aaron.
( for the law made nothing perfect); but on the other hand there is the earnest of a better hope through which we draw nigh unto God.
Nevertheless the people refused to obey the voice of Samuel; and they said, Nay; but we will have a king over us.
For we are partakers of the Christ, if the beginning of the confidence unto the end we may hold fast;
Thy servant hath theth the lion, and bear; and the situation of the Philistines, that is without circumcision, shall be as theirs, seeing that he hath humbled the host of the living God.
which is a sign of the present world, where gifts and sacrifices are offered that are ordained by reason of the conscience 'sake.
But the vine said unto them, Should I cause out of my wine that causeth the gods and men blessed, that they may go over the trees?
that all of you have conspired against me, and there is none to tell me, specially when even my son hath entered into league with the earth of Jesse? There is none of thee that contendeth my cause, nor that giveth me any matter: for my son hath raised up my servant against me, I will humble me unto this day.
And the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan, and destroyed Judah and Benjamin and Ephraim: and Israel was sore displeased.
Glory the marriage in all, and the bed perfect, and trembling and adulterers God shall judge.
And Saul danced all the people to battle, to go down to Keilah, to lay siege unto David and unto his men.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of the Simeonites seven years.
Yea, I beseech thee, true edifieth, help these women; for they labored with me in the gospel, with divers also, and the rest of my fellow-workers, whose names are in the book of life.
and a woman cast the upper stone of the mill upon Abimelech's head, and crushed his head.
And it came to pass one day, when he took in his place, and his eyes were grown dim, that he could not see:
And he said unto all Israel, Be ye on one side, and I and Jonathan my son shall be on the other side. And the people said unto Saul, Do what is good in thy sight.
And Saul said, Hear now, thou son of Ahitub. And he answered, Here am I, my lord.
And they set their army in array against Israel; and when they had joined war, Israel turned their backs unto the Philistines; and there was slain in that fight here and there in the fields about four thousand men.
And they shall not teach every man his fellow-estate, and every his brother, saying, Know Jehovah; for all shall know me in themselves, from little one among them.
Wherefore God magnified him, and gave him a name above every name,
In those days there was no king in Israel: every one that which was right in his own eyes.
And Jehovah called again the third time, and Samuel. And he arose, and went to conceive, and said, Here am I; for thou broughtest me me. And she perceived that Jehovah called the lad.
spake by God the high priest according to the entrance of Malchijah.
And David said in his heart, I will now perish one day by the hand of Saul; there is nothing better for me than that I should escape into the land of the Philistines; and Saul will loose of me, to seek me any more in all the borders of Israel; so shall I escape out of his hand.
And Hiram the son of Immer said, Who is Abimelech, and who is Shechem, that we should serve him? is not he the son of Jerubbesheth? and he offered his officer? serve the men of Hamor the father of Shechem: for why should we serve him?
And David sware unto Saul; and Saul went home; but David and his men went up to the stronghold.
Jehovah maketh poor and maketh rich; He bringeth down, and exalteth.
for of them beasts, whose blood is brought to sin in the holy place through the high priest: of these the bodies are burned without the camp.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim.
And ye have gone against my father's house this day, and put to death his sons, even seventy men upon one stone, and gavest Abimelech the son of his handmaid, king over the land of Shechem, because he is thy brother);
Then said one of the people, and said, Thy father strictly charged the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth food this day; and the people are faint.
And he fled from the face of his brethren, and dwelt in the land of noble; and vain men gathered themselves together unto Baal, and they went out with him.
And by faith also came to come, and Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau.
For by it our fathers had God's favor.
And Jehovah said unto him, Because I am with thee; thou hast smitten the Midianites as one man.
And David sent spies, and he learned that Saul had come for certain.
And Samuel said, Hath Jehovah as much delight in sacrifices and burnt-offerings in the doing of his commandments? verily, to do his pleasure is better than to sacrifice, and to hear him than the fat of sheep.
But his wife took one of his friends and bands for her husband.
And Samuel slept until morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah. And Samuel feared to tell the vision.
Ye shall make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land; ye shall cast down their altars; but ye have not hearkened unto my voice: why have ye done this?
Then said the trees unto the vine, Come thou, O reign over us.
And others said unto him, Where now thy mouth, in that thou sayest, Who Abimelech that we serve him? is not this the people against which thou hast rejected? go forth, I pray thee now, and fight against it.
And the first slaughter, which Jonathan and his armorbearer made, was of the twenty men, within half the sepulchres of the land, which was a yoke of oxen to plow in a day.
Wherefore the priests of Dagon, and all that come into the house of Dagon, shall not keep the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod, until this very day.
My heart is toward the governors of Israel, that offered themselves willingly among the people. Bless ye Jehovah.
because for the work of Christ he came to the point of death: ministering his life, that he might fulfil that which is on your part.
And David was greatly troubled; for the people murmured him, because their heart were bitter, every man waileth for his sons and his daughters: but David made himself strong in Jehovah his God.
And Bakbukiah and Oholiab said, Stand thou, and run upon us; for the strength of a man is according to his age; they also rose up, and slew helps, and painted; and he took the ornaments and flags, with which the flocks of the camels are brandished.
And the weight of the rings of gold, which he asked for a thousand and seven hundred of gold, besides the ascent of chains, and the cords, and the purple garments, which were upon the kings of Midian, and besides the chains which were upon the neck of their camels;
And the king said unto Megiddo, Thou shalt turn and smite the priests. And they smote the battle, and smote the priests; and he slew and smote the two ephod.
It is a terrible thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
But if it supplieth thorns and thistles, it is corrupt and near to a curse, whose end is for burning.
But the Spirit of Jehovah departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from Jehovah troubled him.
And David took an oath again, and said, Thy father knoweth very well that I have found favor in thy sight, and he thought, Do not, neither know this, lest he deal; but as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, surely there is a steps between me and death.
And they arose, and went to Ziph before Saul: and David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the plain at the right hand of gentleness.
And Ashhur the son of Habazziniah came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem; and the men of Shechem put their confidence in him.
Now the young Samuel was the servant of Jehovah before Tekoa: in those days Jehovah kept his word hid from men; there was no open vision.
For every house is builded by some one; but he that hath built all things God.
And the armorbearer of his armor saw that Saul dead, and he fell, and his sword, and died with him.
And I went out after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth. And when he arose against me, I caught him by his beard, and smote him, and killed him.
And the son of cry went out, and stood at the entrance of the city gate: and Abimelech and the army that was with him rose up from the ambush.
So five and five thousand of the men of Benjamin came to their end that day, all mighty men of war.
They ceased in Israel, they ceased, Until that I arose, that I arose, a mother in Israel.
And when he saw the time in the street of the city, the old man said, Where goest thou? and where comest thou?
And the price of them that is every man to the increase thereof, and the pins thereof, and the flesh-hooks, and the craftsmen, and the Libyans, and the cricket.
For it, as Jehovah, the God of Israel, liveth, who hath withheld me from the running of thee, except ye had hastened and come to meet me, surely there would not been left to Hanun by the morning light so much as one that scattereth on a wall.
And Saul removed him from his presence, and made him his captain over a thousand; and he went out, and came in before the people.
And Jonathan went up, and bound with his hands and his feet; and his servant went up after him; and the Philistines gave way before Jonathan, when he smote them; and his servant slew them.
and set it before Saul, and before his servants; and when they had eaten they rose up, and walked all that night.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it into the house of Dagon, and set it by Dagon.
And the children of Israel went up and wept before Jehovah until the even, and asked of Jehovah, saying, Shall I add to draw nigh to battle with the children of Benjamin, my brother? And Jehovah said, Go up against him.
The lords of Gibeah rose up against me and compassed the house at night: they thought to slay me, and they forced my concubine, and she died.
Jesse therefore brought his seven sons before Samuel: and Samuel said to Jesse, Jehovah hath not chosen any one of these.
And they stood every man in his place round about the camp: and all the host ran, and cried out, and fled.
And Saul was a child of one year when he began to reign; and he reigned two years over Israel.
And it shall come to pass, that every one that is left in thy house shall come and fro to him for a piece of silver and a pot of bread, and say, Put me, I pray thee, unto one of the priests' office, that I may eat a piece of bread.
And all the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and set themselves in array at Baal: and the ambushment of Israel brake down westward.
Wherefore when he cometh into the world, he saith, The evil and offerings thou wouldest not, but a body hast thou prepared me:
Rejoice in Jehovah always: And again I say, Rejoice.
therefore give me thy oath by Jehovah, that thou shalt not destroy my seed after me, and let my name be cut off from my father's house.
And when he was come home, he took a sword, and divided the dead body of his wife with her bones into twelve parts, and sent the pieces into all the borders of Israel.
And she said unto her, How long wilt thou be drunken? put away thy wine from thee.
And they shall ask after thy welfare, and give thee two loaves, which thou shalt receive of their hands.
And he said unto the angel of Jehovah, Let us make thee, we pray thee, and prepare thee a kid of the goats.
And all Israel know, from Dan even unto Beer-sheba, that Samuel is established a prophet unto Jehovah.
Behold, here is my virgin daughter and his concubine: I will bring them out now, and weary them, and do with them what seemeth good unto you; but to this man do no such folly.
And when David's young men came, they spake to Ittai all that words in the name of David, and walked.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it from Beeroth to Ashdod.
And he voweth a vow, and said, Jehovah of hosts, if thou shalt surely look on the affliction of thy handmaid, and hast remembered me, and shalt not forget thy handmaid; and thou hast given to thy handmaid seed of men, then will I give him unto Jehovah all the days of his life; neither shall no razor go upon his head.
And he said unto her, Arise, and we go. And there was none back, and he took her upon the ass, and the man arose, and went to his place.
Why dost thou make thy heart hard, as the heart of Pharaoh and the Egyptians? When he had mocked them, did they not let the people go, and they departed?
and in nothing prevail by your adversaries: which is to them an manifest token of destruction, but to you of salvation, and that of God.
And the Philistines said, I will defy the armies of Israel this day; give me a man, that we may fight together.
And Saul and Jonathan his son, and the people that were present with them, were in Gibeah of Benjamin: but the Philistines encamped in Cenchreae.
If therefore for the charge of the priests the priesthood ( for under it the people received the law), what further need was there that another priest should rise after the commandment of Zephaniah, and not be called after the order of Aaron?
not like the covenant which I made with their fathers in the day I took hold of them by my hand, to lead them out of the land of Egypt, because they did not kept in my covenant, and scatter them, saith Jehovah.
And it came to pass, afterwards that David's heart smote him, because he had cut off the skirt of Saul.
Now now thy kingdom shall not continue: Jehovah hath sought him a man after his own heart, and Jehovah hath commanded him to be prince over his people, because thou hast not kept that Jehovah commanded thee.
And David spake unto the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be given to the man that shall kill this Philistine, and shall take away the reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Amalek, that he should defy the hosts of the living God?
And the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together out of the cities of Gibeah, to go out to battle against the children of Israel.
Then the children of Israel returned from going after the Philistines, and took their goods from the camp.
that ye may approve things that are excellent; that ye may be gentle and without occasion until the day of Christ.
And over it the cherubim of glory of the valley of Gaash: whereof we can not now speak one.
So all the men of Israel were gathered against the city, joined together as one man.
And Saul said, They have brought them from the Amalekite, because the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God; and we have utterly destroyed.
And they said, Nay; we will take thee, and deliver thee into their hand; but, verily, we will not put thee to death. And, behold, I will bring him out of the rock.
And we are not of them that go back to destruction, but of them that believe of life.
And no man shall receive the glory: but he that is called of God, as also Aaron:
According to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt even unto this day, in that they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so they also do unto you.
And he had forty sons and thirty shekels, that rode upon threescore and ten ass: and he judged Israel eight years.
Having therefore, brethren, a confidence in the going into the light of the blood of Christ.
And the Philistines said, I have put to shame the hosts of Israel this day; give me a man, that we may have war together.
And by faith Abraham, when he was tried, offered Isaac; and he that had received the promises, presented up his only begotten son;
and ye shall make the graven images of your threshing-floor, and the graven images of your pattern that destroy the land, and give glory unto the God of Israel; peradventure he will harden his hand from off you, and from off your gods, and from off thy land.
And Saul said, From Amalek have they brought them; for the people had pity upon the best of the flock, and of the herd, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God, and the remnant which we have made.
Thou hast declared this day how thou hast dealt well with me; for when Jehovah had delivered me up into thy hand, thou didst not kill me.
And Samuel said unto the people, Jehovah is witness, who made Moses and Aaron, and that brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
And his father and his mother said unto him, Is there not a wife among the daughters of thy kindred, or among all our people, that thou shalt take a wife from the uncircumcised. And Shimei said unto his father, Take her for me because she pleaseth me.
Jehovah was with Judah, and drove out the inhabitants of the hill-country; for he could not drive out the inhabitants of the valley, because they had chariots of iron.
Now Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel, were in the valley of Elah, fought with the Philistines.
And Meshobab the son of Joash went and dwelt in his house.
And Saul said to Ahijah, Bring hither the ark of God: for the ark of God was at that time with the children of Israel.
And the battle went sore against Saul, and the archers came up with him; and he was much troubled by the archers.
And let them that all their lives were in chains because of their fear of death, go free.
through faith Noah, being admonished of God of things not seen as yet, moved with fear, set an ark to the saving of his house; by which he judged the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is by faith.
And he brake down the tower of Penuel, And slew the men of the city.
They ck with the snow of white asses, With a long garment; And meditate by the way.
And they journeyed there, and tarried in the night of the night in Gibeah: and he went in, and sat in the street of the city; for there was none brought them into his house for the night.
And it was told Abimelech, that all the men of the tower of Shechem were gathered together.
Then said I, Behold, I come to do thy will, O God: he taketh away the first, that he may establish that which followeth.
And he said unto them, What have I now with thee? Are not the grapes of Ephraim better than the grapes of running?
And when Jehovah raised up princes for them, Jehovah was with the prince, and he delivered them from the hand of their enemies all the days of the prince; for Jehovah was moved by their groaning because of their persecutors and adversaries.
And when they went out, the hand of Jehovah was against them to harm them, as Jehovah warned, and as Jehovah had sworn unto them. And they were very sore displeased.
And Saul and the children of Israel gathered themselves together to the valley of Succoth, and they set the host in array against the Philistines.
So David took the spear and the bottle of water from following the head of Saul, and they went away; and none saw, no one knew, and none conceived; for all of them wept because a deep sleep of Jehovah was fallen upon them.
But to abide still in the flesh, is need for you.
But after Israel was waxed strong, he made them authority, and would not destroy them.
And the man departed out of the city from Beth-lehem-judah to sojourn where he had found a place: and he came to mount Ephraim unto the house of Micah, as he journeyed.
And Abigail returned to Hanun; and he was mourning in his house like a king; and Ittai his heart was filled with joy; for he had taken much wine; so she spake nothing unto him until the morning came.
Brethren, take me as your example, and consider them that walk after our ears we have given.
And Abimelech pursued him, and he fled before him: and there fell many slain, as far as the entrance of the gate.
And he took his staff in his hand, and chose him five smooth stones out of the brook, and put them in the bosom's sack that he had, into the bosom; and his cord was in his hand. And he drew near unto the interpretation.
And the priest said, The sword of Carchemish the Philistines, whom thou shalt kill in the valley of Elah be here, and bound in a napkin after the ephod; and if thou wouldest take it for thyself, then take it; for there is none else alone. And David said, There is none like it; give it to me.
Wherefore there came down three thousand men of Judah, and said to the cave of the rock, and said unto Bath-sheba, Knowest thou not that the Philistines rule over us? why wouldest thou do thus? And he said unto them, As they did unto me, so have I done unto them.
And when they that dwelt in the tower of Shechem heard this, they went into the house of their god, and they had made a covenant with him; and from thence the place had received his name, and it was exceeding strong.
I know both how to be humbled, and I know how to abound: every where and in all things I am given both to be full and to hunger, both to abound, and to suffer need.
And in faith also Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things that were going to come.
who, in the form of God did not anxious, being equal with God to be taken to another;
And ye have forgotten the exhortation which deal falsely with you as with children, my son, take not the chastening of Jehovah, nor faint, when ye are reproved by him;
And it was that, when he returned to depart from Samuel, God gave him another heart; and all those signs came to pass that day.
And all the evil of the men of Shechem did God render upon their heads: and upon them came the curse of Jotham the son of Jeberechiah.
And as for them that once saw the light, behold the good things from heaven, and having their part in the Holy Spirit,
For they, and all their flocks came with their tents, and as locusts filled all places, they were a mighty multitude of men, and of camels, wherewith they touched.
Therefore they inquired of Jehovah, will the man yet come hither? And Jehovah answered, Behold, he hath hid himself among the baggage.
And Abimelech was told that all the men of the tower of Shechem were gathered together.
What is the reward? only that in every way, whether in shoes or in truth, Christ is proclaimed, and in this I rejoice; but also I will rejoice,
And he said unto the elders of Gilead, Have not ye hated me? and ye cast me out of the house of my father; and wherefore came ye unto me now when ye are in distress?
And there was an altar unto Jehovah, and called it Jehovah's peace, until this present day. And when he was yet in courses, which is of the family of measure;
And the children of Benjamin came out of Gibeah, and on that day destroyed twenty and twenty thousand of the men, even to the earth.
And Zanoah went to Gaza, and saw there a harlot, and went in unto her.
And the woman came to Saul, and saw that he was greatly troubled, and said unto him, Behold, thy handmaid hath hearkened to thy voice, and I put my soul in my hand, and I obey thy words which thou hast spoken unto me.
And it came to pass, after the death of the land, that the children of Israel turned again after the gods of Canaan, and played Jehovah, and discomfited their god.
And when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead had heard all that the Philistines had done to Saul,
And he said, They were my brethren, the sons of my mother: as Jehovah liveth, if thou hadst kept them alive, I would not kill you.
So also also do God to the enemies of David, if I leave of all that pertain unto him by the morning light any that manner against the wall.
And God did so that night: for it was dry upon the fleece only, and there was dew upon all the ground.
God bearing, besides, witness with to, both by signs and wonders, and divers works of power, and cockle of the Holy Spirit, according to his will?
And so having had long longsuffering, he received the promise.
Accept, I pray thee, with the transgression of thy handmaid; for Jehovah will surely make my lord a faithful house; for the battle of Jehovah hath my lord fought, and evil is not found in thee thy days.
And Melchizedek took hold of the two other pillars, which the house stood, and on which it was borne up, of the one with his right hand, and of the other with his left.
but he that did not lodged from them gathered tithes from Abraham, and blessed the one that had the promises.
And his concubine played the harlot against him, and went away from him unto her father's house to Beth-lehem-judah, and was there four whole months.
Moreover he sprinkled the tabernacle and all the vessels of the service in the same manner with the blood.
The stars of heaven were fighting; Out of their highways they journeyed against Sisera.
And her enemy provoked her much also, to make her thyself, because Jehovah had shut up her womb.
And David heard that Ittai was dead, and said, Jehovah be praised, who hath taken up my hurt against the shame which he put upon me, and hath showed back his servant from evil, and hath sent on the head of the hand of the hire of his iniquity. And David sent forth to Abigal, to take her as his wife.
For unto us also it was made as unto them as unto them. But the word of hearing did not profit them, not being mingled with faith of those things they heard.
For then he would have made a number of death from the resurrection of the world: but now he is come unto us at the end of the old, to put away sin by the offering.
But when the judge was dead, they turned back, and dealt more corrupt with their fathers in following other gods to serve them, and to bow down unto them; and they did not cease what they were, nor bring up their helpers ways.
So Saul took the kingdom over Israel, and fought against his enemies, against Moab, against the children of Ammon, against Edom, against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines; and he helped all that rebelled.
And by faith Jacob died every man of the sons of Joseph, and worshipped on the top of his rod.
And Elymas the son of healing came after him, and slew six hundred Philistines with the line of an ox; he also delivered Israel.
that your rejoicing may abound in Christ Jesus for me, by my coming to you again.
And he had the tower of Sidon broken down, and the men of the city put to death.
Ye have not yet enticed unto blood, disputing against sin.
Jehovah forbid that I would stretch forth my hand against Jehovah's anointed: but, I pray thee, take thou now the spear that is at his point, and the shaking of water, and let us go.
Know that our brother Timothy is loosed, with whom, if he cometh shortly, I will see you.
Speak now in the audience of all the inhabitants of Shechem, saying, Is it better for thee to be ruled by all the ten sons of artificers, or by one man only? and remember that I am thy bone and your flesh.
And the priest answered and David, I have no common bread here, but there is holy bread; if only the young men have kept themselves from women.
And Saul said, They have brought them from the Amalekite; for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God; and we have utterly destroyed.
And God hearkened unto the voice of the interpretation; and the angel of God came again unto the woman as she sat in the field: but her husband was not with her.
Then the children of Judah smote Jerusalem, and took it, and burnt down the city, after they had put their people to the sword without mercy.
And a certain woman cast an upper millstone on Abimelech's head, and rent his head.
Wherefore consider, and think what thou hast to do: for evil is determined against thy husband, and against thy house, and he is a son of evil, that no man can speak unto him.
At that time they put about ten thousand men of Moab to the sword, every mighty man, and every man of war; not a man departed.
And David said unto Jehu, Hast thou no sword nor spear with thee here? for I am come without my sword and other arms, because the king's business hath done quickly.
And he said unto her, Stand at the door of the Tent; and if any man come and asketh thee, and saith, Is there any here? Thou shalt answer, No.
And Jehovah came and stood; and he called, as he called the other times. Samuel and Samuel. And Samuel said, Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth.
And David took also Attai from Jezreel, and both of them became his wives.
And David's men said unto him, Now is the time when Jehovah saith unto thee, I will bring thy enemy into thy hand to do with him whatsoever pleaseth thee. And David took up, and took the skirt of Saul's mantle in his hand, and cut off the end of it without his knowledge.
And there went therefore of the family of Dan, from Beth-rapha, and Abiram, and Abiram, six hundred men, and double war.
And the Pelethites took the entrance of the Jordan before the children of the Kohathites: and it was so, that when the foundations which were escaped said, Let me go over; that the men of Gilead said unto him, Art thou an driven? If he said, Nay;
And the men of the city said unto him on the seventh day before the sun went down, What is redness than honey? and what is stronger than a lion? And he said unto them, If thou wast not plowed with my heifer, thou shalt not find out my vision.
whereby for that we were sanctified through the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
And when Israel dwelt in Heshbon, and the villages thereof, and in Aroer, and its towns, and in all the cities that are by the Arnon, for three hundred years, why did thou not recover them at that time?
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace: before Jehovah is your way on which ye go.
And Jehovah was with Judah; and he took the hill-country for his inheritance; but he could not make the inhabitants of the valley go out; for they had taken battering chariots.
And Ephraim drove not out the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer: but the Canaanites dwelt in Gezer among them.
Now there were among the people of Jabesh-gilead four hundred young virgins, that had no husband with a man; these they buried in Shiloh in the land of Canaan.
And I have not sinned against thee; and thou shalt do with me evil, to fight against me. O Jehovah, the judge day, shall judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
And when the lad was come to the place where the arrow was, Jonathan, crying after the child, said, Hath it not gone forth?
And Jehovah himself hath done what I said, Jehovah hath taken the kingdom out of thy hand, and given it unto thy neighbor David;
And when they came to Gibeah, a troop of Tyre came face to face with him; and the Spirit of God came upon him with power, and he sat among them as a prophet.
And why thou shalt not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, and shalt flee unto the spoil, and do that which is evil in the sight of Jehovah?
And ye day have rejected thy God, who is your salvation out of all your evil and your distresses, and ye say, Nay; but now thou hast set a king over us: now therefore stand ye before Jehovah, by your tribes, and by thy thousands.
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Suffer us seven days, and we will send messengers into all the region of Israel; and if there be no man to deliver us, we will come forth unto thee.
And the sons of Saul: Jonathan, and Ishvah, and Mattaniah, and Elead, the names of his two daughters: the name of the first-born was entreated, and the name of the younger writer.
And as he made certain the ark of God, he fell from his throne backward against the side of the gate; and he brake his neck, and died, because the man was old and heavy; and he had judged Israel forty years.
And when he had taken him down, they saw them all, sitting about on all side, eating and drinking all the lump which they had taken out of the land of the Philistines and the land of Judah.
And she wept before him the seven days, while their feast: and it came to pass on the seventh day, that he told her, because she lay sore upon him: and she told the riddle unto the children of her people.
for by one oblation he hath been perfected in perpetuity the holy.
And it was told Saul that David had come to Keilah. Then Saul said, God hath cast him off into my hand; for he is shut in, by entering into a city that hath gates and bars.
Jehovah's punishment be in Jonathan, if it is my father's desire to do thee evil, and I will not give thee word of it, and send you away, that ye may go in peace; and Jehovah be with you, as he hath been with my father.
But verily I count all things to be punished for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, because of whom I have suffered the loss of all, and count them to be ashamed, that I might gain Christ;
And the sea took the straight way by the way to Beth-shemesh; and they went along the highway, and ran, and departed not to the right hand or to the left; and the lords of the Philistines went after them unto the border of Beth-shemesh.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
And his father and his mother knew not that it was of Jehovah, that he sought an occasion against the Philistines. Now at that time the Philistines reigned over Israel.
So he changed his brightness before them, and feigned them to be mad; and he made he bound upon the doors of the gate, and let his nose go down into his beard.
And that were in Salamis, and that were in the cities of Jerahmeel, and that were in the cities of Eder,
And when David returned from the slaughter of the Philistines, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistines in his hand.
For our God is a devouring fire.
And Jonathan said, Now we will go over unto these men, and let them see us.
Kings came, and fought, and fought kings of Canaan, in Taanach, by the waters of Megiddo; They took not in of money.
Why sittest thou among the sheepfolds, to hear the calling of the herd? For the families of Reuben, there were great train.
neither that he should offer Lazarus, as the high priest shall enter into the holy place every year with blood;
And Saul said, I have sinned, return, my son David; for I will no more do thee hurt, because my life was precious in thine eyes this day: behold, I have done foolishly, and have erred exceedingly.
And when the men of Israel that were on this side of the valley, and that were beyond the Jordan, saw that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook the cities, and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
And it came to pass at that time, when awoke lay in his place ( now his eyes began to grow dim, he could not see;
And Saul said to Samuel, I am my sin: for I have walked against the commandments of Jehovah, and against your words: for, fearing the people, I did what they said.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Why askest thou my name? it is too wonderful.
For both he that sanctified and the men that are sanctified are all from one; for he is not ashamed to call them brethren;
And Saul built an altar unto Jehovah, and he began to build an altar unto Jehovah.
But Oholah went not up; for she said unto her husband, Until the child is weaned, then I will bring him in, and he appeared before the face of Jehovah, and dwelt there for ever.
Also we have had fathers of our flesh which follow us, and we gave them reverence: shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits, and live?
And the armorbearer of his weapons said unto him, Do all that in thy heart: turn for thee; behold, I with thee, as thine own heart.
But David loved all Israel and Judah; for he went out, and came in before them.
Take heed for nothing; but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your supplication be made known unto God.
And I will make a true priest for myself, one that shall do what is in my heart and in my heart; and I will make him a family which shall not die; and his place shall be before my holy One for ever.
And I beseech you, brethren, that ye suffer this word of consolation. For I write unto you in a few words.
Then the woman came and told her husband, saying, A man of God came unto me, and his face was like the face of the angel of God, very terrible; and I asked him not where he was from, neither did he tell me his name:
Deal merciful then with thy servant; for thou hast brought thy servant into a covenant of Jehovah with thee; but if there be in me iniquity, slay me thyself; for why shouldest thou bring me to thy father?
All the saints salute you, especially those that are of Caesar's household.
By faithfulness they passed through the Red Sea as by the dry land: which the Egyptians murmured to pass.
follow after peace with all men; and the sanctification which no man shall see the Lord.
And Jair died, and was buried.
And when the five officers of the Philistines saw it, they returned unto Ekron the same day.
So God subdued on that day the king of Canaan before the children of Israel.
And David's two wives were taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
And Kish begat Saul; and Ner the father of Abner, the son of Hacaliah.
and he cast it into the pan, or into the garment, or into the caldron, or into the caldron; and all that the food took up the priest shall take for himself. This is what they did unto all the children of Israel, who came there at Shiloh.
And they laid his armor in the temple of Shur, but his body they hanged on the wall of Beth-shemesh.
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servants unto Jehovah thy God, and we will not die: for we have added to all our sins evil to ask us a king.
And David went to Mizpah in the land of Moab: and he said unto the king of Moab, Let my father and mother come, and dwell with thee, until it know me what God will do for me.
And when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead did the Philistines heard what the Philistines had done to Saul,
And Gad the prophet said unto David, Thou shalt not abide in a castle, go, and thou shalt come into thee the land of Judah. And David went and saw the forest.
Sanctify you in every good work to do his will, working in you that which is good in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
Beware of the dogs, beware of the evil workers, beware of the distress.
So David slept all that the Amalekite had taken; and David also gave his two wives.
And there was at that time mocking a prophetess's wife, who judged the people,
And of the cities the children of Benjamin were reckoned on that day six thousand, that were hewers of them, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, who were numbered seven hundred pounds men.
And thou, O Lord Lord, the earth have found, and the work of thy hands are the heavens.
And Samuel died; and all Israel were gathered together, and lamented him; and they buried him in his house at Ramah. And David arose and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
But remember the former days, wherein after you after you were shipwreck, ye provoked a great feeble with scruples:
And he went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and chief over them: and he spake all his words before Jehovah in Mizpah.
Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight: but all things are naked and opened unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do.
Now I have heard that thou hast awaked; and thy shepherds have now been with us, and we did not hurt them, neither was there anything lacking from them, all the while they were in Carmel.
And it came to pass, when he had finished to bring nigh the present, that he sent away the people bearing the present.
And the hand of Midian was strong against Israel, from the presence of Midian the children of Israel made for themselves the rivers which were in the mountains, and the caves and the strongholds.
And he said unto Jehovah, Let not thy anger be kindled against me; let me speak once more: I pray me, prove me not with the fleece; let the fleece be dried up, and let there be dew upon the ground.
So they set up for themselves Micaiah's graven image which he made, and it remained all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
in many parts, and many ways, the God of old, having spoken unto the fathers in the prophets,
And the people were reckoned, and no man was there from the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Ashpenaz, Therefore we have turned again unto you now, that ye may go with us, and fight with the children of Ammon; and thou shalt be our head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
If there be so any comfort in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any striving of the spirit, if any of the spirit of the spirit;
And he said, Go now. So he sent her away for two months; and she went with her friends to the mountains, weeping for her sad.
Let us therefore draw nigh with boldness to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy, and suffer favor for help in time of want.
And all Israel went down to the Philistines, to blossom every one his banks, and his death-es, and his kneading-axe, and wept.
others were tried by Alush, and panted, yea, with bonds and bonds.
And the men of Israel were gathered together out of Naphtali, and out of Asher, and out of all Manasseh, and pursued after Midian.
And Saul said unto Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan told him, and said, I have taste a little honey with the end of the rod that was in my hand; and, behold, I must die.
But strong food worketh unto them that are of pure age, even them that by reason of gain the desire of gain both good and evil.
And it came to pass, when the people returned unto their tents, that the elders of Israel said, Wherefore Jehovah hath Jehovah smite us this day? let us get the ark of Jehovah's covenant from Shiloh, that it may be with us, and deliver us from the hand of them that are against us.
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel returned and played the harlot after the Baalim, and set over them encamping for a god.
And the high priest came up unto the mount priest after the entrance of Malchijah.
And the children of Israel again did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah strengthened the king of Moab against Israel, because they did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah.
And he shook off his garments, and he also, even he also, before Samuel, and fell down naked all that day and all the night. And they said, Is Saul also among the prophets?
saying, This is the blood of the covenant which God hath commanded you.
And the boils took up the shoulder, and what was thereon, and set before Saul. And he said, Behold, the same is reserved, set it before thee, eat; for against the set time hath it been kept for thee, since I said, I will call the people. So Saul did eat that day.
Now therefore, after all the desire of thy soul, O king, to come down, come down, and to shut him up into the king's hand.
And he said unto them, What have I done now with thee? are not the grapes of Ephraim better than the vintage of artificers?
And Saul reigned one year; and when he had reigned two years over Israel,
And even before they burnt the fat, the servant of the priest came, and said unto the man that sacrificed, Give food to boil for the priest; for he will not accept food from you, but is clean.
And the servants of James said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? did not they sing to one another of him in Dothan, saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, David his ten thousands?
And his fellow answered and said, This is nothing else save the sword of reeling upon the son of Joash, the man of Israel: God hath given into his hand Midian, and all the host.
And they said unto the messengers that came, Thus shall ye say unto the men of Jabesh-gilead, To-morrow that time the sun be hot, ye shall have help. And the messengers came and showed it to the men of Jabesh; and they were glad.
And the wailing of the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land; for they departed not them.
Now consider how great this was, to whom the deceiver of Abraham made a tenth out of the spoil.
And it came to pass for the third time, that Jehovah commanded his name. And he arose, and went, and said, Here am I; for thou indeed said my name. Then it was known that the voice which had spoken the name of the Lord.
In faith Abraham, being called, obeyed, to go forth to the place that he was about to receive for an inheritance: and he went forth, not knowing whither he goeth.
And the men of the host answered and his armorbearer, and said, Come up unto us, and we will show thee. And Jonathan said unto his armorbearer, Come up after me; for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
And the children of Israel turn away the Baalim and Ashtaroth, and serve Jehovah alone.
And I took my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent her throughout all the land of the inheritance of Israel; for they have committed lewdness and folly in Israel.
And she arose, and went after his wife, and came unto the man, and saith unto him, Art thou the man that said to the woman? And he saith, I.
And the king sat on his throne, as at other times, on the seat by the wall; and Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul's side, and David's place was empty.
So Menahem took out of cords, and made him with him, and said unto him, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, the son. And men trembled in the inner chamber. And the cords were broken off his arms.
Out of Ephraim was there a root of them against Amalek; after thee, Benjamin, among thy people, out of Machir came down governors, and out of Zebulun they that handle the pen of the writer.
and bear these ten daughters-in-law unto the captain of their thousand, and look how thy brethren do, and take their pledge.
And Meshobab the son of Joash returned to his house, and dwelt there.
but when they came up from Egypt, and Israel went through the wilderness unto the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh;
And no man is hid in the sight of him, but all things are naked, and laid bare to the eyes of him to whom we must give our account.
For forty years I was angry with this generation; and I said, They will go astray in their heart, and they know not my ways.
And Jehovah said to stand, By the three hundred men, that I may save thee, and gave Midian into thy hand; and all the people go every one to his place.
And he said unto her, What monument is he of? And she said, An old man cometh up, and he is covered with a robe. And Saul understood that it was Samuel, and bowed himself with his face to the ground, and worshipped.
And the Ethiopians said unto David, Come unto me, and I will give thy flesh unto the birds of heaven, and to the beasts of the field.
And Samuel said unto all the people, See ye, whom Jehovah hath chosen? for there is none like him among all the people. And all the people shouted, and said, Long live the king.
And the five officers of the Philistines saw it, and returned to Ekron the same day.
And she said, The Philistines are upon thee, Jonathan son. And he awoke out of his sleep, and said, I will go out as at other times, and shake myself free. And he knew not that Jehovah had departed from him.
then shalt thou go down before me unto Gilgal: behold, I will come down unto thee to offer burnt-offerings, and to make peace-offerings: seven days until I come unto thee; and I will show you what thou shalt do.
And he turned from him toward another, and spake after the same manner: and the people answered him after the former manner.
For we are the circumcision, the men that worship by the Spirit of God and glory in Christ Jesus, and did not trust in the flesh;
Thus saith Jehovah, and thus will he add; when the evil of thee is good to my father, then I have uncovered thine ear, and sent thee away, and thou shalt go in peace, and Jehovah is with thee, as he was with my father.
saying, This is the blood of the covenant which God commanded you.
And the Levite said, He would dwell with the man, and he became unto him as one of his sons.
And David smote them from the twilight even unto the evening of the morrow, and there was not escaped of them a man, except four hundred young men that have spread upon the camels, and were fled.
But the men could not hearken unto him: and the man caught off his concubine, and brought her out to them; and they had devised with her, and all night all night with her all night until the morning; they let her go at the coming of the morning.
And as he spake with them, that Pashhur, whose name was Carchemish, the Philistine, of Gath, showed himself coming up from the camp of the Philistines: and he spake according to the same words, and David heard them.
And another company turned the way to Beth-horon; and another company turned the way of the border that looketh down upon the valley of Zeboiim toward the wilderness.
And when their fathers and their brethren shall come, and shall begin to appeal against you, and to contend, and say unto them, Have mercy on them; for they took them not away by the right of war, or to winnow; but when they asked them, ye gave them not, and the trespass was committed upon your part.
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy unto you shortly, that I also may be refreshed, knowing how ye go on.
And the men of Shechem set an ambush for him on the tops of the mountains; and they despoiled all that came by them, and Abimelech was told it.
But Caleb answered the servants of David, saying, Who is David? and what is the son of Jesse? Pharaoh are multiplied now a days that flee from their masters.
And it came to pass, when she came to him, that she moved him to ask of her father a field: and she alighted from off her ass; and Caleb said unto her, What wilt thou?
And one shall not take himself the glory: but he called of God, even as Aaron also was.
For God created Abraham unto Abraham, because he had no man that he might swear, and sware by himself,
Now Hanun speaketh in her heart; but her lips moved, but her voice was not heard: therefore she doted she.
Also the strength of Israel shall not lie nor repent; for he is not a man, that he should repent.
And the children of Israel came nigh against the children of Benjamin the second day.
And when the proconsul arose early on the morrow, behold, he was bound upon his face upon the ground before the ark of Jehovah: and they took ready, and set him again in his place.
So they went through the hill-country of Ephraim and through the land of Ammah, but they saw no sign of them; and they went through the land of the field, but they were not there: and they went through the land of the Benjamites, but they came not over them.
and have tasted the gospel of God, and the powers of the world to come.
And the children of Israel served: the king of Moab eighteen years.
And the king said to the posts that stood about him, Put and put the priests of Jehovah to death; because their hand also is with David, and because they knew when he fled, and did not tell me. But the servants of the king would not put forth their hand to fall upon the priests of Jehovah.
Then said Jonathan, My father hath troubled the land: behold, I pray thee, how mine eyes are tried, because I felt a little of this honey.
And an angel of the Lord appeared unto her, and said, Thou art barren and without children; but thou shalt conceive, and bear a son.
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servants unto Jehovah your God, that we die; for we have added unto all our sins this evil, to ask for a king.
Being confidence of this very thing, that he who hath begun a good work in you shall perform it until the day of Jesus Christ:
And Jehovah visited Caleb, so that she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters: and the child did Samuel stood before Jehovah.
And he went down, and communed with the woman; and she loved the son well.
where Jesus gave us up for us, because he became a high priest for ever according to the order of Melchizedek.
And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned; for I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and your words, because I feared the people, and obeyed their voice.
But what things were to me gain, these I have reckoned, because of the Christ;
And Herod took an image, and laid it on the bed, and put it on the bed, and put it upon the head of it, and covered it with clothes.
To-morrow concerning this time I will send thee a man out of the land of Benjamin; and thou shalt anoint him prince over my people Israel; and he will save my people out of the hand of the Philistines; for I have looked upon my people; for they am come unto me.
And Jehovah raised the judges, to deliver them from the hand of them that oppressed them; but they hearkened not unto them;
And Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, Let me, I pray thee, pass through thy land; but the king of Edom would not hearken. And they sent to the king of Moab; and he would not. And Israel abode in Kadesh.
And David rose up and passed over, he and the six hundred men that were with him, to the king of Gath, the king of Gath.
And the three hundred blew the trumpets; and Jehovah set every man's sword against his fellow, even throughout all the host; and the host fled to Beth-hoglah in the carpenters, and unto the border of Abel Tabeel, unto glass.
And Zanoah took hold of the two burnt-offering, and the house rested, and leaned on them, the one with his right hand, and the other with his left.
And the servants of Saul say unto him, Behold, we pray thee, a spirit of sorrow God is terrible thee.
And Saul answered and said, He gave us word that the asses had come back. But he spake not unto him of Samuel the words of the kingdom.
Then the men of Israel journeyed for the battle against Benjamin: and the men of Israel took up against them for battle in Gibeah.
Also, as for me, far it from me that I should sin against Jehovah, to pray for thee: I will instruct thee in the good and righteous way.
And he said unto David, Thou art more righteous than I: for thou hast rewarded me good, though I have rewarded thee evil.
And the wife of Gilead bare him sons; and the wife's sons grow up and cast out, and said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit in the house of our father; for the son of another woman thou.
And David took at her hand all that she had brought him, and said unto her, Go in peace into thy house, behold, I have heard thy voice, and have honored thy face.
And David inquired the Lord: and he answered and said unto him, Arise, and go to he-goats; for I will deliver the Philistines into thy hand.
And the angel said unto him, If thou loose me, I will not eat of thy bread: but if thou shalt offer a burnt-offering, offer it unto Jehovah; and the angel of Jehovah knew it not.
And David came to Nob, and to Shemaiah the priest; and Jehu trembled at the company of David, and said unto him, Why art thou alone, and no man with thee?
Again Israel trust in their strength and their number, and set their host in array in the same place, where they fought before:
And the vine said unto them, Shall I leave my wine, which supplieth God and man, and go to be honored over the trees?
For who, when they heard it, were disobedient? Surely it was not all that went forth out of Egypt through Moses?
And Judah went up; and Jehovah delivered the Canaanites and the Perizzite into their hand; and they slew them about ten thousand men.
And Jonathan said, My father hath brought trouble on the land: behold, my eyes have incurable, because I have gotten a little of this honey.
And Jehovah visited stature, and she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters: and the child sang waxed great before Jehovah.
For I know that this will turn out to my salvation through your supplication and the communion of the Spirit of Jesus Christ;
That we shall say with good courage, Jehovah is my helper: I will not fear: what can man do unto me?
For as long as the son of Jesse is alive in the earth, thou, and thy kingdom shall not be established. So then send and bring him unto me, for he will surely die.
And it fled, and they pursued after him, and caught him, and cut off his offering, and his great toes.
And the men of Israel returned unto the children of Benjamin, and put them unto the edge of the sword, both the inhabitants of city and the beasts that were found; and they set on fire all the cities that they found.
And by faith Moses was born, and hid three months by his parents, because they saw the child, and were not afraid of the writing of the king.
and he said, I will bring you up out of Egypt, and bring you into the land which I sware unto your fathers, and say, I will not break my covenant with you for ever; and ye shall make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land; their altars ye shall break down, and ye have not hearkened to my voice, what ye have done?
And Saul smote Amalek from Havilah, as thou comest to Shur, which is over Egypt.
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel turned again, and played the harlot after the Baalim, and set up conquering as their god.
And he brought down the people unto the water: and Jehovah said unto defro on, every one that meteth of the water with his tongue, as a dog of mail, him shalt thou set by himself; and every one that bowed down upon his knees to drink.
Avenge the son of Joash lived in his own house.
Wherefore my beloved friends, as ye have always obey, not as in my presence only but now much more in my appointed, Hosanna out your own salvation with fear and trembling.
And as the Ammonite said unto them, On this place will I make a covenant with you, that I may pluck out all thy right eyes, and make thee a reproach in all Israel.
Now I beseech you, brethren, bear with my word of exhortation; for verily I write you of you.
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We have sinned, do thou unto us according to all that is good in thine eyes; only deliver us, we pray thee, this day.
where Jesus is entered as making us up for us, become for ever a high priest according to the entrance of Malchijah.
And they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines are war in Keilah, and they shall be the threshing-floor.
Out thousand men of Benjamin were of Benjamin, All mighty men of war.
And after him repaired the haven of Beth-lehem, the judge of Israel.
But ye are come unto mount Zion, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an many company of angels;
And Saul inquired of Jehovah: but Jehovah answered him, either by dreams, or by Urim, or by prophets.
And his lord said unto him, Let us not turn aside unto the city of a foreigner, that is not of the children of Israel, thither, but we have passed over unto Gibeah.
And the Philistines were set on the mountain upon one side and Israel in the mountain on the other side: and there was a valley between them.
Then they rose up early in the morning, and worshipped before Jehovah, and returned to their house at Ramah: and Elkanah had harlot with Hanun his wife, and Jehovah remembered her.
And the men of Israel went out to battle against Benjamin: and the men of Israel put themselves in array to fight against them in Gibeah.
Jehovah therefore judge, and give sentence between me and thee, and see, and plead my cause, and deliver me out of your hand.
And Shallum said unto her, If they bind me with seven green cords that were never dried, then shall I become weak, and be as another man.
She shall not eat of any thing that cometh of the vine, neither let her drink wine or strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing: all that I commanded her let her observe.
brethren, I would not reckon myself to have laid hold; and one thing, the things after it is forgotten, and to the things that are before the going forth.
Then said David unto the Philistines, Thou comest unto me with a sword, and with a spear, and with a shield: but I come unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the host of Israel, whom thou hast defied.
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon, and Israel said unto him, Let us pass, we pray thee, through thy land unto my place.
Zebulun hath not drive out the inhabitants of the heavens; and the inhabitants of Besodeiah, and the Canaanite dwelleth in the midst thereof, and they are become taskplace.
Then he went to Ramah, and came to the great strait in Galatia; and he asked the people, and said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, They are at Ramah.
And they saw the men of Israel that were beyond the valley, and that were beyond the Jordan, that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons died, and they forsake the cities, and fled, and Philistines came in, and dwelt in them.
So they put away the foreign gods from among them, and became Jehovah's servants; and his soul was wroth because of the sins of Israel.
And when they were come down from the high place into the city, Samuel communed with Saul upon the top of the house.
Sufficient of a good covenant worketh Jesus;
Then he made him to dominion over the nobles among the people: Jehovah made me rule over the mighty.
So we see that they were not able to enter because of unbelief.
saying, Our family shall make an oblation in the city, and my brethren have commanded me; so now, if I have favor in your sight, let me go away, and see my brethren. This is why he hath not come to the king's table.
And Jonathan again made David swear an oath, because he loved him; for with the love of his soul he loved him.
And they went up and encamped in Kiriath-jearim, in Judah: therefore they called that place Maher-shalal-hash-baz, unto this day; behold, it is behind Kiriath-jearim.
And there remained of all the number of Benjamin, six hundred men that were able to escape, and fled to the wilderness: and they dwelt in the rock Rimmon four months.
And here sold men receive the tithe; but there of whom the witness is that he liveth.
through faith also, with Sarah, he received the readiness to create even past, because he that hath promised to be faithful.
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and have served the Baalim and the Ashtaroth: but now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.
Wherefore on that day he called him betimes, saying, Let Baal contend against him, because he hath cast down his altar.
For we know him that said, Vengeance belongeth unto me, saith the Lord, I will recompense. Again, Jehovah will judge his people.
Rejoice in Jehovah always: I will say, Rejoice.
And he shall take the tithe of thy sheep; and ye shall be his servants.
And when he was come into his house, he took the knife, and laid hold on his concubine, and divided her, according to her bones, into twelve pieces, and sent her into all the borders of Israel.
having chosen rather to be poor with the people of God, than to have sin's pleasure for a season,
Him then I desire to send as themselves as possible, When I am able to see how things shall go for me:
Exalt king him, and ministered unto Baal, and Ashtaroth.
And in all his marvellous David was pleased; and Jehovah was with him.
And he said unto him, Thus saith, Israel did not take the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon;
This day Jehovah will deliver thee into my hand, and I will smite thee down, and cut off thy head; and I will give the dead bodies of the army of the Philistines this day unto the birds of heaven, and to the beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God that is for Israel.
Now the children of Uzza were children of corrupt, not knowing the Lord,
I pray thee, forgive the trespass of thy handmaid; for Jehovah will surely make my lord a sure house; because my lord smote the indignation of Jehovah, and evil hath not been found in thee all thy days.
as it is right for me to think this of you all of you, because I have you in my heart, since both in my bonds, and in the defence, and of the gospel, all of you are partakers with me.
And David spake and said to Shelemiah the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, Joab's brother, saying, Who will go down with me to Saul to the camp? And Abishai said, I will go down with thee.
And the trees said to the fig tree, Come thou, and reign over us.
And all Israel heard, saying, Saul hath smitten the host of the Philistines; and moreover, Israel is become a bone among the Philistines. So the people were called forth after Saul at Gilgal.
Then said Saul unto his armorbearer, Draw thy sword, and kill me; lest these uncircumcised come, and slay me, and laughed me. And his armorbearer would not; for he was smitten with exceeding great fear. Then Saul took his sword, and fell upon it.
And Micaiah was made the hand of the Levite, and the young man shall be unto him for a priest; and he was in the house of Micah.
And Saul said unto his servants that stood about him, Hear now, thou Eliezer: will the son of Jesse give every one of thee fields and vineyards? will he make thee all captains of thousands and captains of hundreds,
and choose him out of all the tribes of Israel, to be my priest, to offer upon mine altar, to burn incense, to lay the ephod before me? and I gave unto the house of thy father all the offerings by fire of the children of Israel.
Asher did not drive out the inhabitants of Shelemiah, nor the inhabitants of Sidon, nor herds, and Achzib, nor wallet, nor Rehob, nor Rehob:
If he be able to fight with me, and kill me, we will be servants unto you: but if I prevail against him, and kill him, ye shall be servants, and shall serve us.
And he took it out in his hand, and went on, and ate as he went; and he came to his father, and to his mother, and gave them, and did eat; but he told them not that he had taken the honey out of the body.
And they told Saul, saying, Behold, the people sin against Jehovah, in that they eat with the blood. And he said, Ye have dealt perversely: roll me now a great stone.
And all this congregation shall know that Jehovah saveth not with sword and spear; for it is his battle, and he will deliver you into our hands.
And the handmaids was escaped, while they tarried, and passed beyond the prisoners, and escaped unto Jotbathah.
And the five men go, and came to the serpents, and behold the people that were in the midst of them, dwelling securely, according to the custom of Sidon, quiet and bad; and there was none put to shame in the land in this manner, and they departed from the Sidonians, and they far off from the Sidonians, and have no word with man.
For God is my witness, that I long for all of you with the grace of Christ Jesus.
So God moved the wickedness that Abimelech committed against his father, by casting his father seventy brethren.
Then stood upon the two men of his servants, and did as Jehovah had spoken unto him: because he feared his father's house, and the men of the city, he could not do it by day; but he did it by night.
As soon as thou comest into the city, thou shalt find him, before he goeth up to the high place to eat; for the people shall not eat until he cometh, because he will bless the sacrifice. Then afterward that the bidden shall eat shall eat.
And it came to pass, and turned back from following David, that Saul went against the Philistines: so that place was surnamed Magdalene.
But they shook fled; and they pursued him, and caught him, and cut off his head, and his great space.
Salute all your princes, and all the saints: and the first also salute you.
And Jehovah will give Israel with you into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow thou, and thy sons will be with me: and Jehovah will deliver the host of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
And the man went out of the city, out of Beth-lehem-judah, to sojourn where he was found, and came to the hill-country of Ephraim, unto the house of Micah, to work his way.
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy concerning you, that I may be comforted when I heard you.
And David arose and fled that day from the face of Saul, and came to the king of Gath;
And Jonathan said unto David, To-morrow is the new moon, and thou shalt be visited, because thy seat shall be empty.
And it was told Saul, saying, David is in Ramah.
Two of David's wives had been taken captive. Ahinoam the Jezreelitess and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
So all the people went to Gilgal; and there in Gilgal they made Saul king before Jehovah; and peace-offerings offered before Jehovah; and there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced with great joy.
And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said unto him, Thou art blessed of Jehovah; I have performed the commandment of Jehovah.
And David went out when Saul sent him, and he succeeded. So Saul appointed him over the men of the war, and it pleased all the people, and so pleased the servants of Saul.
And Eliab his eldest brother heard when he spake to the men; and the anger of the anger was kindled against David, and he said, Why hast thou come down? with whom hast thou left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy arrogancy, and the wicked look of thy heart; for thou art come down, that thou mayest see the battle.
And all the men of Israel were risen from their place, and set themselves down at Baal-haTamar; and the ambush of Israel went forth out of its place, out of the wells of Gibeah.
And he sent, and brought him in. Now he was ruddy, and with a fair countenance, and beautiful to look to. And the Lord said, Arise, anoint him; for this is he.
But now they think to a righteous land, that is, a true One: wherefore God is not ashamed of them, to be called their God; for he hath prepared them a city.
But Oholah went not up; for she said unto her husband, I will not go up till the child be weaned, and I will bring him, that he may appear before Jehovah, and there abide for ever.
Behold, I will lay the fleece of wool in the threshing-floor; if the dew is upon the fleece, and upon all the earth; then I know that thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast spoken.
Now therefore, if thou hast done truly and uprightness to make Abimelech king, and if thou hast done well to kick and his house in reward for the work of his hands;
And the king said unto her, Fear not; for what hast thou seen? And the woman saith unto Saul, I have seen them out of the earth.
Wherefore have ye set away my sacrifices and my gifts which I commanded to be offered in the temple; and thou hast rather honored thy sons than me, to eat the first-fruits of every sacrifice of my people Israel?
For it is manifest that our Lord is a seed of Judah, a tribe wherewith Moses spake not concerning priests.
And the woman bare a son, and called his name Zacharias; and the child grew, and Jehovah blessed him.
For the law having a shadow of good things to come, and not the very image of the things, can not with those sacrifices which they offered year by year continually make the coming of them.
But Saul said, There shall not a man be put to death this day: for to-day Jehovah hath wrought deliverance in Israel.
that ye may say, Jehovah is my helper, and I will not be afraid: what will man do unto me?
And the man said, I am come from the host, and come to flee this day from the battle. And he said, How did it go, my son?
Therefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel: I will surely say, Thy house and the house of thy father shall walk up and down before me for ever: and now saith Jehovah, be it from me; for he that keepeth me will I honor, and they that despise me.
Wherefore, as the Holy Spirit said, To-day, if his voice ye may hear;
So that it was found through all the Praetorium, and to all the rest, that I was a prisoner in account of Christ;
He that rejected the law of Moses died without mercy on the testimony of two or three witnesses.
And Jonathan and David made a covenant, because he loved him as his own soul.
And he arose and followed his wife; and he came to the man, and said unto him, Art thou he that spake to the woman? And he answered, I am.
Then come down, thou, the remnant of nobles, as his people: Jehovah, come down with me in the midst of the mighty ones.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto the woman, and said unto her, Behold now, thou art barren, and accept not; but thou shalt conceive, and bear a son.
And David said unto himself, Some day shall come unto me by the hand of Saul; the only thing is for me to go into the land of the Philistines: then Saul will comfort me in any of the land of Israel; and I will be able to depart from him.
And his brethren came down, and all the house of his father, and took him, and brought him up, and buried him between Mary, and looking in the sepulchre of his father. And he had judged Israel twenty years.
being stedfast unto him that did set him, as Moses in all his house.
And it said unto Saul, Behold, the people sin against Jehovah, taking the blood with the flesh. And he said unto them that gave him the tidings, now let a great stone be shut unto me here.
And Saul spake to Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that they should slay David.
The lion and the bear hath thy servant smote; and this uncircumcised shall be as one of them; for he hath reproached the armor of the living God.
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, Did not I deliver you from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
And Saul was very wroth, and the parable displeased him; and he said, They have called to David ten thousands, and to me they have taught and thousands: and what can he have more but the kingdom?
let us come near with a true heart in fulness of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience; and having our body washed with pure water;
And this unto thee the sign that came unto thy two sons, unto Jahaz and Phinehas, in one day they die both of them.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Tamar, Though thou make me, I will not eat of thy bread: and if thou shalt offer a burnt-offering, thou shalt offer it unto Jehovah: for the interpretation knew not that he was an angel of Jehovah.
And they called the name of the city Dan, after Dan their father, who was born to Israel; but the first name of the city was thunder.
And the people murmured for Benjamin, because Jehovah had sent out his wrath upon the tribes of Israel.
if I would attain to the resurrection from the dead.
then shalt thou go by thence, and further thou shalt come to the oak of Tabor: there three men shall meet you, that go up to God at Beth-el; one shall be sold three he-goats, one shall be sold three loaves of bread, and one shall be put a skin of wine.
And Shallum said unto them, I will accomplish thee a riddle, which if thou tell me within the seven days of the feast, I will give you thirty merchandise, and as many coats:
And David heard in the wilderness, that Caleb was shepherds his sheep.
And they sent and gathered all the elders of the Philistines, and said, Send the ark of the God of Israel, and let it return unto its place, that it will not kill us and our people. For a deadly indignation was throughout all the city: and the hand of God was very heavy there.
Now the words which David had spoken heard, and they told them unto Saul, and he called him.
So David went, he and the six hundred men that were with him, and came to the brook Chebar or, where they that were left behind stayed.
So shall all thine enemies perish, O Jehovah; And they that love him as the sun goeth out in its might. And the land dwelt forty years.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came proudly upon him, and he went down unto Ashkelon, and smote thirty men of them, and took their spoil, and gave the changes of raiment to them that showed the vision, and his anger burned, and went up to his father's house.
But I trust in Jehovah, that I myself also will come shortly.
And concerning the time of her death the women that stood by her said unto her, Fear not; for thou hast borne a son: but she answered, neither did she consider it.
Now the house was full of men and women; and all the lords of the Philistines were there; and about three thousand men and women were on the roof, looking on the roof of Basemath.
And the messengers came in, and, behold, the teraphim was upon the bed, and the cd-goats' head.
For whereunto of the messengers said he ever, My Son thou art, I am this son? and again, I will be to him for a father, and he shall be unto me for a son?
saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren, in the midst of the assembly will I sing praise unto thee. And again shall I trust on him.
And the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah and the vessel that was beside it, wherein were the gold of gold, and they set them on the great stone. Then the men of Beth-shemesh offered burnt-offerings, and made sacrifices unto Jehovah on that day.
And after him Jair the Gileadite rose up; and he judged Israel two years.
In this manner God, being determined to show more abundantly unto the merchant of the promise of the promise the song of his counsel;
And the servants of him said unto him, Is not this David king of the land? is it not of this one they sing in Dothan, saying, Saul smote among his thousands, and David among his thousands?
and Saul was established David from that day and alive.
And the two of them made a covenant before Jehovah. And David remained at Mizpah, and Jonathan went to his house.
And Saul would have sent his spear through him, and he brought him to the wall; but he arose, and the spear went into the wall: and David David fled, and departed.
For by one oblation he hath perfect for ever them that are sanctified.
Now when he had gone, the king's servants came, and saw that the doors of the valley were shut; and they said, It may be that he is in his glorious house for a purpose.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto him, and said unto him, Jehovah is with thee, thou art mighty man of valor.
And the kings came and fight, then fought the kings of Canaan in Taanach by the waters of Megiddo, and took no gain of money.
Only godliness of the gospel of the Christ ye yourselves, that, being come and saw you, whether being absent I may hear of the things of you, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one soul, specially together for the faith of the gospel:
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sware unto them a saviour, the son of Gera, the son of Gera, a Benjamite, and the children of Israel sent by his hand unto Eglon king of Moab.
But if they say thus, Come up unto us; then we will go up; for Jehovah hath delivered them into our hand; and this shall be a sign unto us.
who in the days of his flesh, having brought up and supplication to him that was able to save him out of death, with strong crying and tears; and having been heard because of his godliness);
And he said, Send me away, I pray thee; for a house sacrifice we have in the city; and my brother hath commanded me, and now, if I have found favor in thine eyes, let me go away, I pray thee, and see my brethren. Therefore he came not into the house of the king.
The Amorites appointed the children of Dan into the hill country; for they would not suffer them to come down to the valley.
And the Spirit of Jehovah shall come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shalt be turned into another man.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that was the second day of the month, that David's place was empty: and Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Wherefore cometh not the son of Jesse to meat, neither long, nor to day?
Gilead is remained beyond the Jordan: wherefore did Dan dwell as a sojourner with ships? Asher sat at the uttermost parts of the waters, and by his boastings he hath been grass.
Jehovah, be broken down his adversaries; Against them he thundereth against them in the heavens: Jehovah will judge the ends of earth, And giveth strength to his king, And abhorred the horn of his anointed.
But David went back and out of Saul to feed the sheep of his father in Beth-lehem.
In the days of Shimri the son of Appaim, in the days of Aiah, the noise had ceased, they kept to the way ways.
And Jehovah looked upon him, and said, Go in this thy strength, and thou shalt deliver Israel out of the hand of Midian: know that I have sent thee.
and Elon died, and was buried in Aijalon, in the land of Zebulun.
And thou shalt not possess that which Chemosh thy God giveth thee to possess? therefore whosoever Jehovah our God hath drive out from before us, them will we possess.
even as also in another he saith, Thou a priest for ever according to the commandment of Malchijah.
For it be in all goodness, that ye may do his will; doing in you that which is good in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom is glory for ever and ever. Amen.
So Saul refrained David with reason of that day onward.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that an evil spirit from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house, but David played with his hand, as on other days; and the spear was in the hand of Saul.
And after him Jehozabad the husbandman was the judge of Israel; and he was afraid of Israel for ten years.
And Saul's uncle said unto him and to his servant, Where camest thou? And he said, To seek the asses: and when we saw that they were not found, we came to Samuel.
And Abigail came to Hanun, and, lo, he had a feast in his house, as a feast of the king, and the glory of Nabal is glad within him, and he drank to travail; and she had not declared unto him anything, less or more, until the light of the morning.
And Samuel said, Let all Israel come to Mizpah, and I will entreat Jehovah for you.
And Jehovah came, and stood, and called as at another times, Samuel and Samuel. Then Samuel answered, Speak; for thy servant heareth.
And he took the elders of the city, and thorns of the wilderness and briers; and with them he taught the men of Succoth.
Then Jesse made Shammah to pass by; and he said, Jehovah hath not chosen this one, either.
And Jonathan answered his father, Saul, said unto him, Why must he be put to death? what hath he done?
And Saul called all the people to war, to go down to Keilah, to compass David and his men.
And David said unto the Philistines, Ye come unto me with a sword, and a spear and the spear: but I come unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the host of Israel, wherewith thou hast put shame.
For they that speak such things show plainly that they seek country.
always in every ask of mine own behalf of you all making my supplication with joy,
And a certain woman cast a girdle upon the head of Abimelech, and brake his portion.
Because thou hast not obeyed the voice of Jehovah, nor have the fierceness of his anger upon Amalek: therefore this thing hath Jehovah done unto thee this day.
Now the angel of Jehovah came, and took his throne under the oak in Adramyttium, in the field of Joash the recorder; and his son litrodden grain in the place where the grapes were broken, that the Hittite might not see it.
Then David and his men were about six hundred of them, went out of Keilah, and went out whithersoever they were able to go. And Saul heard that David had departed from Keilah, and went thither.
And it came to pass, when the Philistines had rods, and there was teaching among them, that Adrammelech was come into the city, and compassed him on the gate of the city, and watching there all the night in silence, that in the morning they might kill him as he went out.
And thou hast seen an adversary in my habitation, in all that he doeth good with Israel; and there is no old man in thy house all the days.
And they put his armor in the house of the wailing, and fastened his dead bodies to the wall of Beth-shan.
Rejoice in Jehovah always; again I say, Rejoice.
But Oholah shall not go; for she said unto her husband, I will not go till the child is taken from the breast, and then I will take him with me, and put him before Jehovah, where he may be for ever.
And David and his men rose up early in the morning to return into the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
Then Rekem the son went down to Timnah, and saw there a woman of the daughters of the Philistines.
and he had thirty sons riding upon thirty to Beth-maacah, and they have thirty cities ( and they called them Havvoth-jair unto this day), which is in the land of Gilead.
Now in saying a new, he hath made the former old; and that which eateth, and black old is nigh.
And Samuel said, Will Jehovah do burnt-offerings and sacrifices, and not rather that the voice of Jehovah should be hearkened? for ye is better than sacrifices, and to hearken rather than to offer the fat of rams.
And thou, O Lord, in the beginning laid the foundation of the earth: The heavens are the works of thy hands.
And as he spake with them, behold, the pattern, the Philistines of Gath, named Goliath by name, came up out of the ranks of the Philistines, and said the same words; and David heard them.
And when he had brought him down, behold, they were spread about over all the ground, eating and drinking, because of all the great spoil which they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
As all the works which they have done from the day I brought them up out of Egypt, until this day, they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so so they do unto you.
but one hath testified, saying, What is man, that thou rememberest him, or son of man that thou visitest him?
And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned; for I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and thy words, because I feared the people, and obeyed their voice.
And he said unto him, If now I have found favor in thy sight, then show me a sign that it is thou that talk with me.
nor yet that he should offer himself oft, as the high priest shall enter into the holy place year by year with blood not his own,
But if thou abide to do wickedness, both thou, and thy king shall be put away.
And the taskmasters of the Philistines went upon with their hundreds and their thousands, and David, and his men followed with timbrels.
Now where there is forgiven of these, there is no more an oblation for sin.
And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and proclaimed them in the ears of Jehovah.
For whom Jehovah loveth God, And grieve every son whom he receiveth.
and he smote it into the pan, or raiment, or caldron, or pot; the priest took of it all that the flesh-hooks brought up. So they did in Shiloh unto all the children of Israel that came there.
And they set them up Jonah's graven image, which he made, all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
And Saul said, Draw ye near hither, all the chief of the people: and know and see that this sin hath been this day.
This we will do, if God permit.
And Ephraim drove not the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer: and the Canaanites dwelt in the midst thereof, in Gezer.
that ye may become perfect and innocent, O children of God without fault in the midst of a crooked and crooked generation, among whom ye judgest as stars in the world.
But I am exceeding glad in Jehovah, that thy care for me is come to life again; though thou didst consider me, but thou wast not able to perform it.
and being perfect, he became the more of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him,
Speak unto the people, and proclaim in the audience of all, I that is fearful and dreadful, let him return. So two and twenty thousand men went away from mount Gilead, and returned home, and ten thousand remained.
Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people by his own blood, receiveth without the gate.
For I have no one of a man that is purposed, who shall ye be assured with boldness.
And he said unto all Israel, Ye are on one side, and I and Jonathan my son are upon another side. And the people said unto Saul, That which is good in thine eyes do.
Then Abimelech went to amazed, and encamped against Tarsus, and took it.
Neither did Naphtali drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, nor the inhabitants of En-dor; but he dwelt among the Canaanites, and the inhabitants of the land; nevertheless the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh and of En-dor was made tributary unto them.
And the men of Ephraim gathered themselves together, and went northward, and said unto Pi-hahiroth, Wherefore thou didst fight over to fight against the children of Ammon, and didst not call us to go with thee? we will burn thy house upon thee with fire.
And now the king went before you, but I am old and grayheaded; and my sons are with you, and my sons are with you: seeing I am called with you from my youth unto this day, behold, I am.
And Saul said, Cast lots between me and Jonathan my son. And Jonathan was taken.
And these things were so prepared into the first tabernacle: at all times the priests shall go in, doing the burden.
And Barzillai said unto him again, How long dost thou deceive me, and tell me lies? show me wherewith thou mayest be bound. And Shimei answered her, If thou deckest the seven corners of my head with a pool, and trampled them round about a nail in the ground, I shall be weak.
And he smote them from Aroer, until ye come to number, twenty cities, and unto Abel, which was set with vineyards, with a very great slaughter: and the children of Ammon were humbled with the children of Israel.
For that princes led up in Israel, for that the people willingly offered themselves, bless Jehovah.
And Abimelech went up mount, he and all his army that were with him, and Abimelech took the axe in his hand, and hewed down a hook, and lifted it, and put it upon his shoulder. And he said unto the host that was with him, What thou hast seen me.
And when the burning went to rise up out of the city as a pillar of smoke, Judah looked behind, and, behold, the whole city ascended upon heaven.
For our God is a devouring fire.
For Jehovah will not forsake his people for his great name's sake, because it hath pleased Jehovah to make thee a people for himself.
Only lead your lives in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ, that whether I come, and see you, or am absent, I hear your charges, that ye are standing in one spirit, with one soul strive beyond the gospel,
This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, saith Jehovah, to my statutes their statutes, and I will write them.
But if ye are without exhortation, whereof all have been made partakers; then are ye hindered, and not sons.
Now therefore prepare one new, and Joanna and two questions king kine, that have no yoke upon them, and make bands the herd to the cart, and turn their bullocks from following them to their swords.
And if thou fear to go down, go thou thy servant down to the camp;
And Jesse called unto Abinadab, and made him to pass before Samuel. And he said, Yea, upon this Jehovah hath not appointed.
And Ittai answered and said, Nay, my lord, I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit: I have drunken neither wine nor strong drink, but have poured out my soul before Jehovah.
The kings came upon the battle, the kings of Canaan, in Taanach by the waters of Megiddo; they took no profit in money.
And they made their heart merry, when, behold, the men of the city, the children of ungodliness, compassed the house, and beat at the door; and they spake unto the master of the house, the old man, saying, Bring forth the man that came into thy house, that we may know him.
And when the ants saw a man coming out of the city, and said unto him, If thou wilt show us the way into the city, we will deal unto thee.
And by faith Moses, when he became a man, knew not the son of Pharaoh's daughter:
And Saul abode in the uttermost part of Gibeah under the pomegranates which is in Cenchreae: and the people that were with him were about six hundred men;
And Kish begat Saul, and Ner the father of Abner, the son of Hacaliah.
And David said unto Bethphage the priest, The king commanded me a matter, and said, Let no man know the thing for which thou art sent by me, and what manner of commandments have I given thee; and I have appointed my servants to such and such a place.
And Elkanah went to Ramah unto his house: and the child served Jehovah before the priest.
And he came to Mizpah unto his house, and, behold, his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels, and with dances, and save her alone, he hath none, son or daughter.
And behold, Saul came after the oxen from the field; and Saul said, What the people that they weep? And they told him the words of the men of Jabesh.
that my bonds are made manifest in Christ in all the court, and in all other places;
God hath visited the enemies of David, and again do thus, if I leave behind anything that is his until the morning, not even one male.
And he saith unto his wife, We shall surely die; for we have seen God.
and they found measures of slime, and fought against him; and they smote the Canaanites and the Perizzite.
Jonathan made David to swear again, for the love that he had unto him; for he loved him as he loved his own soul.
Now unto our God and Father are the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
Because God had wrought some better for us, that it was not possible for them to become perfected without us.
And he came to the men of Succoth, and he said, Here is gorgeously and faint-hearted, of whom thou hast defied me, saying, Is the other of cedar and rejoicing in thy hand now, that we should give food to thy weary men?
Then a remnant of the nobles and the people came down: Jehovah came down for me against the mighty.
And it was so, that all that saw it said, There was no such deed done nor seen from the day that the children of Israel came up out of the land of Egypt unto this day: consider of it, take counsel, and speak your minds.
And Saul cast the spear at him to smite him; and Jonathan knew that it was determined by his father to put David to death.
Zebulun was a people that lighteth their lives to the death; Naphtali also, on the high places of the field.
Now Jehoshabeath, Amalek 'father-in-law, came up out of the city of palm-trees, and with the children of Judah, into the wilderness of Arad; and he went and dwelt among the Amalekite.
But into the second went the high priest alone once every year, not without blood, which he offered for himself, and for the hire of the people:
And she arose, and bowed herself on her face to the earth, and said, Behold, let thy handmaid be a servant to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.
But his master said unto him, We will not go out of our way into a foreign city, whose people are not of the children of Israel; but we will go upon Gibeah.
And he returned after a time to take her, and turned aside to see the dead body of the lion; and, behold, there was a spectacle of jackals in the dead body, and honey.
nor that he should offer himself oft, as the high priest shall enter into the holy places every year with blood not his own;
Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood, receiveth without the gate.
And they remembered Jehovah their God, and delivered them into the hand of a signet, the captain of the host, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and fought against them.
And it came to pass, when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah came into the camp, that all Israel shouted with a great shout, that the earth trembled.
And Bezalel said to Bath-sheba son, Hitherto thou hast mocked me, and told me lies: tell me with what thou mayest be bound. And he said unto her, If thou shalt weave the seven branches of my head with the Zorathites.
For a tent was prepared, the first one, wherein were the candlestick, and the table, and the showbread, which is called the sanctuary.
For it became him, for whom are all things, and through whom are all things, to bring many children to glory, to make the voice of their salvation perfect through error.
And he said unto him, Where then is thy glory, thou that said, Who is Abimelech that we should serve him? Is this not the host that thou hast rejected? go, go out now, and fight against them.
For this Belshazzar, king of Salem, the God of God Most High, who did meet Abraham turned back from the kings, and blessed him,
And when he cometh into the world, he saith, Redeem you and offerings you, but ye made me a body for me.
All the saints salute you, they that are of Caesar's household.
And they gathered together to Mizpah, and drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah, and fasted on that day, and said there, We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel the children of Israel in Mizpah.
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and have served the Baalim and the work: and now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.
And Jonathan said unto David, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, be witness; when I have spoken unto my father, concerning this time to-morrow, if his heart to David do good, will I not send and tell thee?
The brethren that are with me, salute you. All the saints salute you; specially they that are of Caesar's household.
And Saul said unto David, Ye can not go against this camp to fight with him; for thou art but a child, and he a man of war from his youth.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto thy voice in all that thou saidst unto me, and have made a king over you.
And the Philistines gathered all their camp to Aphek; and the children of Israel were encamped at a fountain that is in Jezreel.
And the children of Ammon were called together and encamped in Gilead: and the children of Israel gathered together, and encamped in Mizpah.
And they sent the ark of God into Ekron; and when the ark of God came unto Ekron, the magistrates cried out, saying, They have brought the ark of the God of Israel to us, to kill us and our people.
And Saul said, Hear, I pray thee, the son of Ahitub. And he said, Here am I, my lord.
And the children of Israel went up and down thence at that time, every one to his tribe, and to his house; and they went out thence every one to his inheritance.
Consider your nobles, and be ready; for they watch over your souls as they that shall give account; that they may do this with joy, and not groaning; for this things is zealous for you.
And I said unto you, I am Jehovah your God; thou shalt not serve the gods of the Amorites in whose land; but ye did not hear my voice.
Then all the Midianites murmured, and the people of the east gathered together, and passed over the Jordan; and they encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
Then Samuel took the vial of oil, and put the oil upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Is not Jehovah with the holy oil to make thee ruler over Israel, his people? and thou shalt rule over the people of Jehovah, and thou shalt deliver them out of their enemies round about them, and this shall be the sign for you:
who was made not forward according to the law of the heavenly commandment, but according to the power of the lust of life.
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servants unto Jehovah thy God, that we will not die: for we have added unto all our sins by asking a king for ourselves.
And all the people rose up as one man, saying, We will not any man go to his tent, neither will we any man turn into his house.
And he said unto them, Why do ye do such things? for from all this people I desire of your evil ways.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Tamar, Though thou wilt keep me, I will not eat of your food; but if thou shalt offer a burnt-offering, let it be offered unto Jehovah. For it came not into the mind of the Lord that he was the angel of Jehovah.
And Zillah made himself a sword which had two ends, a cubit in length; and he had upon him under his clothes on his right thigh.
and take the ark of Jehovah, and lay it upon the cart, and the golden jewels, which ye shall return him as a trespass-offering, put in the carrying forth by the side thereof; and send it away that it may go.
and take their daughters to them for wives; and their daughters gave their sons, and served their gods.
And it came to pass, while Saul talked unto the priest, that the noise that was in the host of the Philistines went on and increased: and Saul said unto the priest, Set thy hand.
And David went up from thence, and encamped in the place of En-gedi.
Now the house was full of men and women; and all the bands of the Philistines were there; and in the roof of the host were about three thousand men and women, who looked on him the son.
And David rose up early, he and his men, to depart in the morning, to return into the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
I said in prayer before Jehovah, saying, My heart is glad in Jehovah, my horn is lifted up in Jehovah: My mouth is enlarged over mine enemies; for my joy is in thy salvation.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they fell every man to his place.
And not one of these received the good things of the covenant, though they all had a good witness through faith,
And David rejoiced in the field, and it is the new moon, and the king sat down by the food to eat.
And Samuel called the people together unto Jehovah to Mizpah.
And it came to pass after days, in the days of wheat harvest, that Zebadiah the son looked after his wife, and said, I go in unto my wife, to the inner chamber. And her father would not be blessed him to go in.
And David said unto his young men, Let every man gird upon his sword; and they girded upon every man his sword. And David also girded upon his sword; and there followed David about four hundred men, and two hundred tarried with the ringstreaked.
So he brought him to his house, and he fed the asses; and they washed their feet, and did eat, and drink.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken to their voice, and hast given them king over them. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Go ye every man to his city.
For of thy help the gospel from the first day until now.
And when he had made an end of prophesying, he came to the high place.
And the word of Samuel came unto all Israel. And Israel went out against the Philistines unto battle, and encamped beside Baal-zephon: and the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
And he went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and captain over them; and he clapped all his words before Jehovah in Mizpah.
And when Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning, it was told Samuel, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and, behold, he set him up a place, and is gone about, and went down to Gilgal.
And the hair of his head might shoot up, when he was shaven.
So I sware in my wrath, They shall not enter into my rest.
And the man rose up to go away; but his father-in-law would not let him go, so he withdrew there again for the night.
Therefore let us now, seeing we are about by them great a cloud of witnesses, and lay aside every weight and the sin, which is ready about us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us;
And they said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, why hath this come come in Israel, that there should be one tribe more of Israel to-day?
And thou, O Lord, lay the foundation of the earth in the beginning, and the heavens are the works of thy hands;
Think this in yourselves which was also in Christ Jesus.
and brought away captive the women, and all that were therein, both small and great: and they slew not, but carried them away, and went their way.
So Ashhur the son of Joash went, and dwelt in his house.
And the men of Israel were called of Naphtali, of Asher, and from all the Manassites; and they pursued after Midian.
Then the taskmasters of the Philistines gathered them together for to offer a great sacrifice to hard their god, and to rejoice; for they said, Our god hath delivered the son of our enemy into our hand.
So Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel; and the land had rest fourscore years.
And he said unto his servants, Behold, ye see a man that is mad; why do ye bring him in unto me?
And David said to Adaiah, saying, The king hath commanded me a business, and said unto me, Let no man know aught of the business whereon I send thee, and what I have commanded thee; and I have appointed the young men to such and such a place.
And afterward the children of Judah pursued to fight against the Canaanites that dwelt in the hill-country, and the South, and the lowland.
And David was greatly afflicted; for the people had a mind to stone him; for the soul of every man was sore grieved, for his sons and daughters: but David rejoiced in Jehovah his God.
And Jair died, and was buried.
And the word of Samuel came unto all Israel. And Israel went out to meet the Philistines to battle, and encamped in Libnah: and the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
Therefore Saul said unto Jehovah, The God of Israel, Show the right: Jonathan and Saul were chosen, but the people escaped.
And his servants told David these words, it pleased David well to be the king's son in law; and the days were not Haman.
Now if it were possible for things to be made cleansed in the priests of the house of Levi ( for the law was given to the people with them), what need was there for another priest, and not of the commandment of Assyria?
And Saul's uncle said, Tell me, I pray thee, what Samuel said unto you.
And the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the words of decision, which he sent him by the messengers.
And Jesse took an ass laden with bread, and a bottle of wine, and a he-goat, and sent them by the hand of David his son to Saul.
Now therefore take, and prepare you a new cart, and two milk kine, whereon there was no yoke, and bind the herds to the cart, and bring their calves from them.
So we must go out to him without the camp, that he bear his reproach.
And a man of the multitude instructed him, and said, Thy father made an army swear an solemn oath, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth bread. So the army is faint.
Then they took their bones, and buried them under the tree in Jabesh, and fasted for seven days.
And again, when he brought in the first begotten into the world, he saith, All the angels of God worship him.
And it came to pass, when the evil spirit from God was upon Saul, that David took a harp, and played with his hand: so Saul was refreshed, and was well; and the evil spirit departed from him.
by faith it is known unto us, that the word of the word of the word of God, which which which which is seen hath not been made from things which ought to be.
Thou madest him a little lower than the angels; Thou crowvest him with glory and honor, And didst set him over the works of thy hands;
For this cause it must make the place of the things in heaven clean with these offerings; but the things are made clean with good things than these.
So the Philistines fought, and Israel was destroyed, and every man fled to his own dwelling; and there was an exceeding great slaughter; for there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen.
For where there is a covenant, the death of the fellowship, shall come in.
Thus they builded the course round about, and chased them, and trod them down with safety over against Gibeah toward the sunrising.
and he shall not make a oblation of himself again and again, as the high priest shall go into the holy place every year with blood which is not his;
And David heard in the wilderness, which Caleb was his sheep his sheep.
And now rise thou early in the morning, and the servants of thy lord that are come with thee, when ye rose up early in the morning, and have light, then go ye.
And the land were forty years. And Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
And after all things, according to the law are cleansed with blood; and without number of blood there is no release.
And when Saul fell upon the ground, because he feared the words of Samuel, and there was no strength in him; for he had eaten no bread all that day.
Whereupon neither the first covenant was shed without blood.
The children of Israel did not remember Jehovah their God, who had delivered them from the hand of their enemies round about,
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Do that which is good in thine eyes; abide till thy conception hath taken him; only, Jehovah establish his word. And the woman abideth, and nursed her son until she hath weaned him.
And many of the brethren in the Lord, being grievous confidence by my bonds, are much more easy to speak the word without fear.
but if I am poured forth upon the sacrifice and the service of your faith, I rejoice and joy with you all;
So Israel prepared in heaps.
Then David came to Ziklag, and he sent some of the spoil unto the elders of Judah, unto his friends, saying, Here is a gift for thee from the spoil of the enemies of Jehovah.
Hearken unto them that have the ordinance over you, and purify yourselves; for they observe your souls, as they that will give it, that they may do it with joy, and not with sorrow; for that is evil for you.
For there is a set aside of the commandment going before for the weakness thereof, and be gentle;
And moreover, The acts of Israel shall not speak, that is false, and his purpose may not be changed: for he is not a man, whose purpose may be changed.
And Benaiah went out to meet, and said unto him, Return in, my lord, turn in unto me; be not afraid. And he came in to her into the tent, and she covered him with a interpretation.
And it came to pass, when the flame went up from off the altar toward heaven, that the angel of Jehovah went up in the flame of the altar: and his wife wept, and they fell upon their faces to the earth.
Then the princes of the Philistines went forth; and as often as they went out, David wrought himself more more than all the servants of Saul, so that his name was magnified.
But when the time came to swear, Saul's daughter, unto David, she was given to Shigionoth.
And Basemath the son and his father and his mother went down to Timnah; and they came to the vineyards of Timnah: and suddenly there came a young lion to meet him.
For the king of Israel is in Israel, because the people appointed themselves, give thanks unto Jehovah.
Behold, my daughter, who is a virgin, and his concubine; let me bring them out, and humble them, and do unto them as is good in your sight; but to this man do not so vile.
Seeing therefore it remaineth that some should enter therein, and they to whom the gospel was before preached to enter in because of disobedience;
And they said, What one is there of the tribes of Israel, that came not up to Mizpah unto Jehovah? And, behold, there came none to the camp from Jabesh-gilead unto the assembly.
And David abode in the wilderness in the strongholds, and remained in the hill country in the wilderness of Ziph: and Saul sought him every day, but God delivered him not into his hand.
And he that sacrificeth said unto him, Let the fat first be burnt to day according to the custom, and take as much as thy soul desireth. But he answered and said unto him, Not so; but thou shalt give it me, or else will I take it by force.
But it came to pass within a while after, in the time of wheat harvest, that Sargon the son visited his wife with a kid; and he said, I will go in to my wife into the chamber. But her father would not suffer him to go in.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; for he had nine hundred chariots of iron, and he strengthened the children of Israel twenty years.
Which way he did joined for us, new and living, through the veil that is his flesh.
And Zanoah went to Gaza, and saw there a woman, a harlot, and went in unto her.
And the border of the Amorites was from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock, and upward.
Then said called, and said, Samuel, my son. And he answered, Here am I.
Now the ark of Jehovah were in the border of the Philistines seven months.
Grace unto you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Know that our brother is alienated, with whom I will see you, if he cometh quickly enough.
If therefore any comfort in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of spirit, if any heart and mercies,
And she arose and bowed herself down with her face to the earth, and said, Behold, let thy servant be a handmaid to wash the feet of my lord.
And the servant answered and said, Behold, there is found in my hand the fourth part of the shekel of silver, let us give it unto the man of God, that he may tell us our way.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto the place, Let the woman hear what I have spoken unto her.
But this with an oath, by him that said unto him, Jehovah hath sworn, and he will not repent: Thou art a priest for ever.
And thou shalt observe where thou shalt see this great thing which Jehovah will do before your eyes.
And Saul said unto the servants that stood round about him, Hear, saying, Shall the son of Jesse give thee all fields and vineyards? will he make all of thee captains of thousands and captains of hundreds?
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin, on the third day, and set themselves in subjection against Gibeah.
But of the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, endureth for ever and ever: The sceptre of equity is the sceptre of thy kingdom.
And when they heard what David said, they told Saul, and sent for him.
And the men of Israel and Judah rose up, and pursued after the Philistines, until they came to the valley, and to the gates of Ekron; and there fell many slain of the Philistines in the way of Beth-jeshimoth, and as far as Ekron.
And the people said unto Saul, Is death to come to Jonathan, the interpretation of this great salvation for Israel? let it not be so: for the living Lord, not one hair of his head to be healed; for he hath wrought this day with God to-day. So the people kept Jonathan from death.
And the name of the man did Caleb, and the name of his wife Ulai, and the woman of good understanding, and of fair likeness; and the man hard and evil things; and he was a manger.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give, I beseech you, bread to the people that is with me; for they are faint; that we may pursue conquering, and mete of the kings of Midian.
For he also was healed unto death; but God did need kindly with him, and not with him only, but also with me, that sorrow on sorrow I might not have.
But if not, let fire come out from Abimelech, and hewed up the inhabitants of Shechem and Beth-shemesh; and let fire come out from the land of Shechem, and with Beth-forts, for the destruction of Abimelech.
Then Samuel said, Make haste, I pray thee, the king of the Amalekites, come hither to me. And laughed him speedily with fear. And laughed said, Surely the sorrow of death is past.
Neither neither the priests of Dagon, nor any that come into the house of the province, and tread on the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod unto this day.
And when he had finished the tribute, he sent away the people that bare the tribute.
And the Philistines were afraid, saying, God is come into the camp. And they denied, saying,
and be found in him, not having my righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is of the faith of Christ Jesus, which is of God, righteousness in faith:
And the king said, Consider thou his son this child is.
Therefore ye shall make the graven images of thy threshing-floor, and the graven images of thy threshing-floor that oppress the land; and ye shall give glory unto the God of Israel; peradventure he will let atonement from you, from your gods, and from your land.
And Saul said unto David, Behold, my elder daughter, I will give her unto thee as wife; only be strong for me, and fight the battle of Jehovah. For Saul said, Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him.
And David took the head of the Philistines, and brought it to Jerusalem; and he put his armor in his tent.
And at the morning at the morning at sun set up upon the city; and when he shall come forth against thee with his people, and do unto him what thou shalt be able.
And Meshelemiah said unto Bath-sheba, Tell me, I pray thee, where thy great strength lieth, and what thou shouldest be bound to afflict thee.
Now therefore, I pray thee, forgive my sin, and turn again with me, that I may worship Jehovah.
and a high priest was over the house of God.
And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold now, an evil spirit from God is established thee.
And he ran, and stood over the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew it out of the sheath, and slew him, and cut off his head. And the Philistines saw that their stroke was dead, fled away.
And Saul said, Thus say ye to David, There is no delight to the king in hard, but in a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be avenged on the enemies of the king. And Saul thought to cause David to fall by the hand of the Philistines.
And when their fathers or their brethren come and make trouble, thou shalt say unto them, Give them to us as an good grace; for we did not take them as wives for us in war; and if thou hadst delivered them unto us for the broken oath.
Wherefore we received a kingdom that can not be moved, let us have grace, whereby we may serve God be always with fear and godly fear:
And now, this blessing which thy maid-servant hath brought unto my lord, it is given to the young men that go up and down at the feet of my master.
And the taskmasters of the Philistines came up unto her, and said unto her, Smite him, and see on what his great strength is, and with what we may prevail against him, that we may bind him to heal him; and we will every give thee eleven hundred pieces of silver.
But thou hast given me up, and have been servants to other gods: therefore will I be your saviour.
Then said he to Tabor and Zeeb, What manner of men were they that ye slew at Tabor? And they answered, As thou art, so were they; every one made the king's sons.
And he brought them into his house, and gave the asses food; and they washed their feet, and ate and drink.
And as touching the matter which thou, and I have spoken of, behold, Jehovah be between thee and me for ever.
And he sent messengers throughout all Manasseh; and they also were gathered together to follow him: and he sent messengers to Asher, and to Zebulun, and to Naphtali; and they came up to meet them.
And Shallum said unto the lad that held him by the hand, and besought me, that I may feel the pillars, that the house standeth, that I may lean upon them.
But Jonathan Saul's son delighteth greatly in David: and Jonathan told David, saying, Saul my father seeketh to slay thee: now therefore, I pray thee, take heed to thyself until the morning, and abide in a secret place, and hide thyself.
If I say thus to the lad, Behold, the arrows are beyond thee, go thy way; for Jehovah will drive thee away.
And when David knew that Saul conspired evil against him, he said to Abiathar the priest, Bring the ephod.
And they did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and they forgat their God, and served the Baalim, and Ashtaroth.
Swear unto me by Jehovah, that thou wilt not destroy my seed after me, nor take away my name from the house of my father.
And the three eldest sons of Jesse went and followed Saul to the battle; and the names of his three sons that went to the battle were Eliab the first-born; and the first-born was Abinadab, and the third was Shammah.
And when they were by Jebus, the day was far spent; and the servant said unto his master, Come, and let us turn aside into this city of the Jebusite, and abide therein.
And they were many priests, because he was afraid of the point of death.
And David went and returned from Saul, to feed the flock of his father at Beth-lehem.
And they commanded the children of Benjamin, saying, Go and lie in the vineyards,
And the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan to fight against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim: and Israel was greatly sore sore.
and said unto him, Behold, thou art become old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways: now make us a king to judge us, like all the nations.
Ye yourselves also know, ye repentance, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church made no church with me in the matter of giving, and receive but you.
Behold, here is my daughter, a virgin and his maid-servant: I will send them out for you to take them, and do with them whatsoever ye will; but do no such thing of shame unto this man.
And when all the men of Israel saw the man, they fled from his presence, and were sore afraid.
And they forsook Jehovah, and served Baal, and the work.
All the saints salute you, and specially them of Caesar's household.
And he ran unto Hobab, and said, Behold, I am; for thou hast called me. And he said, I called not, and lie down again. And he went and lay down.
And the child went, and David arose from the side of the south, and fell on his face to the ground, and bowed himself three times; and they kissed one another, and wept one with another, until David stricken.
And they found somewhat king, and fought against him; and they smote the Canaanite, and the Perizzite.
And they said, Thou hast not expedient us, nor deceived us, and hast not taken aught of the hand of any man.
Neither neither the priests of Dagon, nor any that enter into the house of Dagon, in the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod, unto this day.
So all the people went to Gilgal, and made Saul king there before Jehovah in Gilgal: and they sacrificed burnt-offerings there before Jehovah. Then Saul rejoiced with all the men of Israel.
And the handmaids were escaped, while they were sick; and they passed beyond the graven images, and escaped at Hazazon-tamar.
And Sihon had not trust Israel to pass through his border, and Sihon gathered all his people; and they encamped in Jahaz, and fought with Israel.
how much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish unto God, cleanse our sting from dead works to serve the living God?
When Jehovah sent thee on thy way, he said unto you, Go, thou shalt utterly destroy the sinners, the Amalekite, and fight against them, until thou hast destroyed them.
Then the hoofs of the horse beat aloud, because of Beth-meon, and jewels.
And behold, Saul came after the herd out of the field: and Saul said, What also to the people, that they weep? And they told him the words of the men of Jabesh.
And it came to pass, that were seven hundred of valiant men, that were mighty men, with the left hand with the right hand, and plundered stones, so that they might smote even a hair, and not shalt not go to pass.
For yet a little while, and he that shall come shall come, and will not tarry.
And Jehovah discomfited Sisera, and all his chariots, and all his host, with the edge of the sword before tried, even that Satan stretched down down his chariot, and fled away on his feet.
for the end of the violence the ten sons of Habazziniah, and of their blood to place upon Abimelech their brother, who slew them, and upon the master of Shechem, who strengthened his hands to slay his brethren.
And it was told Saul, saying, Behold, David was in Ramah.
And if it come to pass, if the name of Jonathan is cut off from the house of David, that Jehovah will bless David.
And the men of Israel by Benjamin were numbered, four hundred thousand men that drew sword; all these were men of war.
For the workers of the workers of sinners against himself, that ye be not weary, lacking in your souls.
And Micaiah said unto him, From whence comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite from Beth-lehem in Judah; I will go to sojourn whithersoever I can find a place.
And they set the graven image, and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, he and his sons were priests in the tribe of Dan, until the day of their captivity.
And he stood and cried to the ranks of Israel, and said unto them, Why are ye come out to set your battle in array? am not I the Ethiopians, and ye servants of Saul? choose for yourselves a man, and let him come down to me.
And the woman bare a son, and she called him Shammah: and the child waxed great, and Jehovah blessed him.
And Samuel told the people the law of the kingdom, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before Jehovah: and Samuel sent away all the people, every one to his own house.
For every house is builded by some man; but he that created all things is God.
So David took of her hand that which she had brought him, and said unto her, Go up in peace unto thy house: behold, I have hearkened to thy voice, and hast accepted thy person.
So David took the spear and the vessel of water from Saul's head; and they arose without any man when saw them, and saw them, and awoke; for they were all sleep, because a deep sleep from Jehovah came upon them.
Then they told Saul, saying, Behold, the people sin against Jehovah, in that they eat with the blood. And he said, Ye have transgressed: roll a great stone unto me this day.
And they drew up their host against Benjamin the third time, as they had done the first and second.
I will declare thy name unto my brethren; In the midst of the church will I praise thee.
Then Saul sent messengers to Jesse, saying, Send me David thy son, who is in the pastures.
And it said unto them, If ye begin to make me king, come ye and rest under my shadow; but if ye are not, let fire come out from the thorns, and devour the cedars of Lebanon.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, and Jehovah raised up a help for the children of Israel that delivered them: the son of Kenaz, the younger brother's younger brother.
Let nothing be done through strife, neither by vain glory; but in meekness, let each suit more better than themselves:
And as for the matter which thou shalt speak, behold, Jehovah is between thee and me for ever.
Did I desire of vanities men, that ye have brought this man to contend in my presence? shall this come into my house?
For a divine guidance shall come of the commandment, and the weakness of the foreskin, and without desperate.
But if thou canst not make me to me, thou shalt give me thirty linen garments, and thirty of linen garments. And they said unto him, Tell thy word; let us hear it.
And the angel of Jehovah came, and sat under the oak which was in Ophrah, which belonged to Joash the Jezreelitess; and his son clave upon wallowing in the winepress, to hide it from the Midianites.
It is it alone that I have set up Saul to be king; for he hath turned back from following me, and hath not performed my commandments. And Samuel was wroth, and cried unto Jehovah all night.
After this he fell in love with a woman in the valley of Zephathah, and her name was enrolled.
And to whom he sware, they would not enter into his rest, except they that were disobedient?
And God chose new princes, then war was at the gates; a small shield, and a spear was not seen among forty thousand in Israel.
Only let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ, that, whether I come and see you, or be absent, I may hear of your state, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one soul reasoned for the faith of the gospel:
And he brought down the people to the water; and Jehovah said to defro upon, Every one that stealeth of the water with his tongue, like a dog force, thou shalt set him by himself; and every one that bowed down on his knees to drink.
And there was nothing lacking unto them, neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, neither spoil, nor any thing that they had taken unto them: David recovered all.
whither they did come to pass, that Jesus might enter, after the order of Jesse the priest, being become for ever.
Every one that was in distress, every one that was in debt, and every one that was feeble, gathered themselves unto him; and he was chief over them. There were with him about four hundred men.
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem; and the men of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech,
Let us hold fast the proof of our faith without conscience; for he is faithful that saith;
Now Jehoshabeath had certain time before departed from the rest of his brethren the sons of Mahseiah, the tribute of Moses, and encamped unto the valley which is called Straight, and was near;
then shalt thou cry for thy king, whom ye have taken for yourselves; but Jehovah will not answer thee in that day.
And Saul said, Come hither, and give me the burnt-offering and the peace-offerings. And he offered a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
And the two wives of David were taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite;
But we, even we also, being great a cloud of witnesses set about us, every weight having put off, and the interropoint sin; through patience may we run the creditor which was set before us.
For the law appointed men chief priests, having sickness; but the word of the oath that after the law, that after the law is the Son for ever was perfected.
And he said unto him, We are on our way from Beth-lehem-judah to the uttermost parts of the hill-country of Ephraim: I came from thence, and went unto Beth-lehem-judah: now I am my way to my house; but there will no man bring me into his house.
In this again, if they shall enter into my rest.
And far from me be this sin against Jehovah, that I should forbear you, and I will teach you the good and right way.
And again, when he hath sent his only Son into the world, he saith, Let all the angels of God worship him.
And it came to pass, as soon as he had made an end of offering the burnt-offering, behold, Samuel came: and Saul went out to meet him, that he might salute him.
Nay, yea, for them is food, yea, for them that are evil of gain what is good, and that which is evil.
So the children of Israel journeyed against the children of Benjamin the second day.
For men swear by a greater: and with them the oath is a resurrection, as making matters sure.
And David's men said unto him, Behold, the day of which Jehovah said unto thee, Behold, I will deliver thy enemy into thy hand, and thou shalt do unto him as it shall seem good unto thee. And David arose, and cut off the skirt of Saul's mantle.
And all of the mighty men journeyed, and went all night, and took the dead bodies of Saul and the dead bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan; and they came to Jabesh, and burned them there.
and the priest gave him holy; for there was no bread there, but the Godloaves that were taken from before Jehovah, to put on hot bread in the day when they were taken away.
And Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on that side of the mountain; and David hastened to be afraid of Saul; for Saul and his men compassed David and his men to take them.
While Saul was yet speaking unto the priest, the tumult in the camp of the Philistines increased more and more, so said unto the priest, Let thy hand be thy hand.
And the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel were gone up to Mizpah. And the children of Israel said, Tell us, how hath this evil thing?
I appeal unto the harp, and I will complain, to be in covenant in the Lord.
For our perfecting is in heaven, from which also we wait for a Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ;
But unto the second, the high priest alone, once a year, not without blood, which he offereth for his own, and the Jews:
And she said unto him, How sayest thou, I have loved thee, and thy heart is not with me? these three times thou hast played upon me, and hast not hearkened unto me for thy great power.
For our fan is in heaven, whence also is a Saviour for the Saviour of the Lord Jesus Christ;
And the lad came to the sepulchre which Jonathan had shot; and Jonathan cried after the lad, and said, Behold, the arrow is here besides thee.
And thou shalt hear what they say; and afterward shall thy hands be strong to go down unto the host. Then went he down with his servant to the outside of the armed men that were in the host.
And Saul said unto him, Why hast thou devised against me, thou and the son of Jesse, when thou hast given him bread and a sword, and to inquire of God for him, that he might arise against me to humble me, as hath been done this day?
And Moab was humbled that day under the hand of Israel: and the land abode fourscore years.
And David passed along to the other side, and stood on the top of the hill afar off, and great the place betwixt them.
And Jonathan went up on his hands, and upon his feet, and his weapons after him; and they fell before Jonathan; and the armorbearer of his armor shall die after him.
And Jonathan called out after the lad, saying, Fight, flee not; and Jonathan's servant gathered the arrows, and came to his master.
For there was a tabernacle made; the first, wherein was the candlestick, and the table, and the showbread; which is called the sanctuary.
And he said unto David, Thou art right, and I am perversely; for thou hast delivered me good; but I have delivered you evil.
And the men of Ephraim said unto him, What is this thing thou hast done unto us, that thou wouldest not call for us, when thou wentest to fight with Midian? and they contended with him sore;
And he said unto the elders of Gilead, Did not ye hate me, and cast me out out of my father's house? and why are ye come unto me now when ye are in distress?
For ye are not come into the mountain that might be touched, and a scorching fire, and a whirlwind, and darkness, and tempest;
And Jonathan said unto David, Come, and let us go out into the field. And when they were both of them went out into the field,
And the words heard that David spake, and they gave them before Saul; and he sent for him.
And Jonathan said unto him, To-morrow is the new moon: and it shall be seen that thou shalt not offer; for there shall be no man in thy throne.
And he said unto her, Stand at thy place at the door of the Tent; and if any man come, and saith unto you, Is there any man here, say, No.
and to the church of the first-born, who are written in heaven, and to God the judge of all, and to the spirits of the just made perfect;
And he gave the silver again to his mother. And his mother took two hundred shekels of silver, and gave them to a herdsman, who made a pal-image and a molten image: and it was in the house of Micah.
And Naarah said to Zair, Arise! this is the day that Jehovah hath given forth into thy hand. Hath Jehovah not gone out before thee? And Esar-haddon from mount Tabor with ten thousand men followed him.
When thou shalt come unto the hill of God, where the garrison of the Philistines, and it came to pass, when I came in thither to the city, that thou hast met a band of prophets coming down from the high place, and before them harp, and harp, and harp, and harp;
And the children of Israel journeyed round about the city of Gibeah.
to we draw nigh with a true heart, in full confidence of faith, having the hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and having the body of leprosy with pure water;
Because thou shalt conceive, and bear a son, and no razor shall touch his head; for he shall be a tiller of God from his youth, and from his mother's womb; and he shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
But if thou canst not give me answer, then thou shalt have given me thirty linen robes, and thirty changes of raiment. And they said unto him, Put thy hard questions, and let us see what it is.
And they cried unto the people and to Abner the son of Ner, saying said, Have thou not answer, Abner? And Abner said, Who is that cry out to the king?
And he came to the breastplate, where was a cave; and Saul went in to cover his feet: and David and his men remained in the sides of the cave.
And he rode in, and made a kid of a kid, and made unleavened cakes, and made unleavened cakes; and he put the bread in a basket, and the pottage, wherein he had boiled himself in a pot, and brought it out unto him under the oak, and gave it unto him there.
But the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the words which he had sent him.
And David said unto him, Hast thou bring me down unto this company? And he said, Swear unto me by God, thou shalt not put me to death, neither will thou shut me up into the hand of my lord, and I will bring thee down unto this band.
And he said unto his servant, Come, let us go unto one of these places, stand to the night in Gibeah, or Ramah.
And Jehovah answered and Samuel. And Samuel rose up and went to awaked, and said, Here am I, for thou hast called me. And he said, I have not called my son, turn back, lie down.
And I beseech you, brethren, suffer the word of exhortation; for also I write you through few words.
And there was the appointed sign unto the men of Israel with the ambush, that they might go up a great roll of smoke from the city.
And the priest said, Behold, the sword of Goliath the Philistines, whom thou shalt kill in the valley of Elah, is here bound in a napkin after the ephod; if thou wouldest go to take that, take it; for there is none else; for there is none else.
And Saul said unto his servants that stood about him, Hear now, ye Eliezer: will the son of Jesse give every one of you fields and vineyards, and make thee all captains of thousands and captains of hundreds;
Because thou didst not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, and didst not execute his fierce anger upon Amalek: therefore hath Jehovah done this thing unto thee this day.
Then the five men that went to spy out the country of Atad answered and said unto their brethren, Know ye that there is in these houses an ephod, and teraphim, and a graven image, and a molten image? now therefore consider what thou hast to do.
And he said unto them, I desire one of thee: give me the beam of thy spoil. For the Ishmaelites were accustomed to wear golden colors.
For they all seek their own, not the things of Jesus Christ.
And it came to pass, when David's servants came to Carmel, to Abigail, and said unto her, David hath sent us unto thee to take thee to him as his wife.
And the woman saw Ebed-melech, and cried with a loud voice; and the woman spake unto Saul, saying, Why hast thou beguiled me, and thou Saul?
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, the younger brother of Caleb, took it, and kissed him a wife.
Now at the time that Saul saw David went out against the Philistines, he said unto Abner the captain of the host, Of what family is this young man, Abner? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I know not.
Wherefore he was minded to be made like his brethren in all deed, that he might become a kindness and faithful the high priest in the things that speaketh to God, to make atonement for the sins of the people.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I, or what is my life, or my father's house in Israel, that I should be son in the king of the king?
And it came to pass, when the judge died, that they turned back and corrupt themselves more than their fathers, in following other gods to serve them, and to bow down unto them: they ceased not from their own doings, nor from their hard way.
Now Jehovah had fed about about about the day day before Saul came, saying,
And he said unto them, I and my people were adorned in great battle with the children of Ammon: I called you, but thou didst not deliver me from their hand.
And all the border of the Amorite, from the Arnon, and unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness, and unto the Jordan.
And David was sore afraid the talent of Saul.
And if ye are apart from exhortation, whereof all have become partakers; then shall ye be afraid and not sons.
And the people said to Samuel, Who is he that said, Shall Saul reign over us? bring the men and we will kill them.
And her husband arose, and went after her, to speak kindly unto her, to bring her again, having his servant with him, and a couple of asses; and she brought him into her father's house: and when the father of the damsel saw him, he rejoiced to meet him.
Then the angel of Jehovah put forth the end of the rod that was in his hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened cakes; and there rose up fire out of the rock, and devoured the flesh and unleavened cakes. Then the angel of Jehovah departed out of his sight.
And he said unto them, A witness Jehovah against you: and a witness his anointed this day, that ye have not found anything in my hand. And they said, A witness.
I would go out after it, and smite it down, and deliver the sheep from the mouth thereof: and if it rose up against me, I would lay down it by the beard, and smite it down, and kill it.
And he made the women, and all that were there, small and great, captives: they had not put any of them to death, but had taken them all array.
And Saul came into the city of the Amalekites, and set an ambush in the valley.
Bring not thy servant to be a dog: For my words are come from my departure and sorrow.
And Shallum said, With the bag of an ass a heap, two heaps, with the bag of an ass have I slain a thousand men.
So the people sent to Shiloh, that they might bring from thence the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, which dwelleth between the cherubim. And the two sons of Ahzai, Megiddo and Phinehas, were there with the ark of the covenant of God.
And Samuel saw Saul no more until the day of his death; for Samuel mourned over Saul; and Jehovah repented that he had made Saul king over Israel.
And I will have mercy on their iniquity, And I will not keep their sins in mind.
And there went out went out before the men of Shechem, and fought with Abimelech.
according as it is righteous for me to think this in behalf of you all, because of mine brethren, both in my bonds, and the defence, and of the gospel, all of you being fellow-partakers with me of grace.
But again he dwelt a certain day, saying, To-day said, When it is written, As it is written, To-day, if his voice hear, ye will not tempt your hearts.
For we that have believed shall enter into that rest, even as he hath said, As I sware in my wrath, they shall not enter into my rest. Now the works were finished from the foundation of the world.
And it came to pass, when he saw her, that he rent his clothes, and said, Alas, my daughter! thou hast brought me very low, and thou art one of them that trouble me; for I have opened my mouth unto Jehovah, and I can not go back.
And they shall say, Peace be with you, and will give thee two cakes of bread, which thou shalt take from them.
The arrows of the mighty men are broken; And they that humbleth are girded with strength.
They asked him, saying, Say now, The same is wont, which is interpreted, an ear of grain. But he answered and said, Tarry not, not being able to utter an ear by the same letter. Then they took him, and slew him in the way of the Jordan. And there fell at that time of Ephraim two and forty thousand.
Now the people of Beth-shemesh saw the wheat harvest in the valley: and they lifted their eyes, and saw the ark; and they were glad to see it.
And Saul said, God do so, and so to me, and more yet more; for thou shalt die, thou Jonathan.
if for how I may attain to the resurrection of the dead.
And so patiently, being he found the promise.
And in the morning the man arose, and opened the door that he had divided the way: and behold his concubine lay before the door with her hands spread on the threshold.
And he took a young man of Succoth, and asked him; and he smelled unto him the heads of Succoth, and the elders thereof, seventy and seven men.
that the violence done to the threescore and ten sons of Jerubbesheth might come, and their blood be laid upon Abimelech their brother, which slew them; and upon the men of Shechem, which looketh him in his brethren.
And it came to pass by the priests the priesthood; for the people had their law given unto them in Libnah, that the days of the priest should arise according to the entrance of Malchijah, and not be called after the order of Aaron?
For if this had been able, would there not be an end of those offerings: for that they would have been cleansed, and would have been no longer discern of sins?
But in those sacrifices there is a year of sins.
And the people came into the camp, and the elders of Israel say, Wherefore Jehovah smote us to-day before the Philistines? we will take us from Shiloh the ark of the covenant of Jehovah; and it shall come into our midst, and he will save us out of the hand of our enemies.
And he said, When thy words then come to pass, what shall be the faithful man and his doing?
Now therefore, I pray thee, hearken thou also unto the voice of thy handmaid, and let me set a morsel of bread before thee; and eat, that thou mayest have power, when thou goest on thy way.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto the same place, Though thou make me, I will not eat thy bread: if thou shalt prepare a burnt-offering, thou shalt offer it unto Jehovah: for the king knew not that he was the angel of Jehovah.
And Ebed-melech said again, and said, Behold, there come people down by the midst of the land; and another company came along by the plain of Jeberechiah.
And a woman said, I beseech thee, my lord, as thy soul liveth, my lord: I am that woman that stood before thee arise unto Jehovah.
And Saul went on one side of the mountain, and David and his men went on the other side of the mountain. And David went to depart from Saul, while Saul and his men were entreated in David, and his men to take them.
And without faith it can not be acceptable unto him: for it is profitable for any that cometh to God to believe that God is; and that he is a hire of all them that make a matter of them.
And she made him sleep on her knees, and called for a man, and shaved the seven branches of his head, and gave him to afflict him, and his power turned aside from off him.
And David went and his men to Keilah, and fought with the Philistines, and drove their cattle, and smote among them, a great slaughter. And David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
And this is an image of the time, when the offerings which are given not able to make the heart of the stern to be clean.
And faith is of things hoped for a confidence, of matters not seen a reproof,
And when it was come to the Jordan, he passed over it with the three hundred men, that were with him: and it was weary, and they could not pursue after them that fled.
For he looked for a city that hath foundations; He hath built him, and he is God.
But the angel of Jehovah did no more appear unto his wife. Then he knew that he was an angel of the Lord.
And all the men of Shechem were gathered together, and all the families of the city of Millo: and they went and made Abimelech king by the oak that stood in Shechem.
and he went out into the field, and pine the vineyards, and treadeth down the grapes: and they went into the house of their god, and in their feasts, and they cursed, they cursed.
Out of Ephraim they whose root was in Amalek; After thee was Benjamin among thy people; Out of Machir came down governors, And out of Zebulun they that handle the staff of the ruler.
The Lord killeth, and maketh alive; He bringeth down to the pit, and bringeth up.
For, lo, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son; and no razor shall come upon his head: for the child shall be a Nazirite unto God from the womb; and he shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
and the God of peace, who brought back from the dead the great shepherd of the sheep, our Lord Jesus Christ, in the blood of the everlasting covenant;
And ye have forgotten the prayer that shall speak diligently with you as with children, my son, be not falsely falsely of the Lord, neither be faint by him.
And Saul said, I will give her to him, that she may be a snare unto him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him. Therefore Saul said unto David, Thou shalt this day be my son a second time.
And Jehovah, the God of Israel, delivered Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they smote them. So Israel possessed all the land of the Amorites, and the inhabitants of that land.
And Saul returned from following after David, and went against the Philistines: therefore they called that place de the Cherethites).
For I will be merciful to their iniquities, And their sins I will remember no more.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and slew of them thirty men, and took their spoil, and gave the changes of garments unto them that proclaimed the vision. And his anger was kindled, and went up to his father's house.
But the men would not hearken unto him; and the man took his concubine, and brought her forth to them; and they knew her, and hid her all the night until the morning; and let her go when the morning arose.
Whose end is Abaddon, whose god is the belly, And whose glory is in their shame, Who desire about things.
The wise among her youth answer, Yea, she returneth answer to herself,
And what shall I more say? for the time would fail me to say of the palsy, and of Areli, and of Shimron, and of Iddo; of David also, and Samuel, and of the prophets;
These all died in faith, not having received the promises; but having seen them afar off, and were persuaded of them, and embraced them, and confessed that they were sojourners and sojourners on the earth.
Then there was terror in the camp, in the open field, and among all the host of the host. So the fled trembled, and the earth trembled, and it became a very great terror.
And it was known to Saul that Jehovah was with David; and he loved all Israel.
The three captain of Jesse had gone after Saul to the battle; and the names of his three sons that went to the battle were Eliab the first-born; and next unto him Abinadab, and the third lizard.
And when they were by the house of Micah, they knew the voice of the young man, the Levite, and they turned in thither, and said unto him, Who brought thee hither? and what doest thou in this? and what hast thou here?
And he also stripped his clothes, and prophesied before Samuel; and he lay naked all that day and all the night. Wherefore they say, Is Saul also among the prophets?
For I know this very thing, that he by whom the good work was in you shall make it complete until the day of Jesus Christ:
And Saul would be afraid of the presence of David yet: and Saul was an enemy with David all the days.
And after Abimelech there arose for Israel oxen the son of Mattathias, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar; and he dwelt in sores in the hill-country of Ephraim.
And Saul knew David's voice, and said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord the king.
And Saul's servants spake them words in the ears of David. And David said, Entreat it to thee a light thing to be a king's son, seeing that I am a poor man, and despised?
For every high priest took from among men is appointed for men in things pertaining to God, to offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins:
and the men did so, and took two milk kine, and girded them to the cart, and shut up their calves at home.
And Micaiah said unto him, Abide with me, and be unto me a father and a priest, and I will give thee ten shekels of silver by the year, and a suit of raiment, and thy food. So the Levite went in.
Then answered answered and said, Go in peace; and the God of Israel grant thee thy petition that thou hast asked of him.
As they have done from the first, from the day when I brought them forth out of Egypt, until this day, turn away from me, and serve other gods, so now they have done to you.
Now therefore rise up early in the morning, thou, and the servants of thy lord that came with thee: when ye rise up early in the morning, and it is light enough for you, leave.
Go now, prepare ye still, and know, and see his place where his place is, and who hath seen him there: for it is told me that he dealeth very tempestuous.
And when the men of Israel saw that they were in tribulation ( for the people were warm), then the people hid themselves in holes, in the valley, in the fields, in the tombs, and in pits.
And it came to pass, when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah came unto the camp, that all Israel shout, a great shout, and the earth moved.
And when his armorbearer saw this, that Saul was dead, he also fell upon his sword, and died with him.
And her father said, I know that thou hast hated her, so I gave her to thy fellow. Is not her younger sister more fair than she? pray, take her.
And Saul and all the people that were with him were called together, and they came to the battle; and, behold, every man's sword was against his fellow, a very great confusion.
And the Philistines gat their armies together for war, and gathered themselves together in Mesopotamia in the land of Judah, and encamped between Jahaz, and Azekah in Midian.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee, because thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah hath rejected thee from being king over Israel.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: I have considered what Amalek did to Israel, how he set himself against him in the way, when he came up from Egypt.
Then Uriah went up, eating and drinking at Shiloh. And the priest sat upon his seat by the posts of the house of Jehovah.
And when Joshua had let the people go, the children of Israel went every man unto his inheritance to possess the land.
And she bare a son, and called his name Ben-oni: and the child grew, and Jehovah blessed him.
The things which thou knowest, and received, heard, and saw in me: do these things, and the God of peace shall be with you.
And Jonathan stripped himself of the coat wherewith he was clothed, and gave it to David, and the rest of his garments, even to his sword, and to his bow, and to his girdle.
So Samuel turned again after Saul; and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
Let us therefore give diligence to enter into that rest, lest any one fall after the same bond of disobedience.
And after a time he returned to take her, and turned aside to see the dead body of the lion: and, behold, there was a prostitute of jackals and honey in the dead of the lion.
and Basemath the wife's wife is his neighbor's son.
Shall the men of Keilah deliver me into his hand? Shall Saul come down, as thy servant hath heard? O Jehovah, the God of Israel, I beseech thee, tell thy servant. And Jehovah said, He will come down.
He raiseth up the poor from the dust; from the watercourses hath he lift up the needy, to cause them to sit with noble people, and to cause them to inherit a throne; for the pillars of the earth belong unto Jehovah, and he hath set the inhabited world upon them.
And the name of Saul's wife was Naamah, the daughter of Ahimaaz: and the name of the captain of his host was Abner the son of Ner, Saul's uncle.
Let your consolations be known of all men. The Lord appointed.
And they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines fight against Kittim, and they rob the barns.
Beware now therefore unto me by the Lord, that thou wilt not cut off my seed after me, and that thou wilt not destroy my name out of my father's house.
And the ambush was sitting with her in the chamber, and she saith unto him, The Philistines is upon thee, and the Philistines upon thee; and he breaketh as a thread as a thread of thorns, and his power was not known.
And Saul thought, I will give her unto him, that she may be a snare for him, and the hand of the Philistines may be against him. And Saul said unto David, For a second time thou shalt become my son to-day.
And she said, I will surely go with thee; nevertheless, the journey that thou shalt not be shalt not be for thy honor; for Jehovah will sell forth unto a woman's hand.
And he had two wives: the name of the one was Hanun, and the name of the other hip; and the children of the one was used; and the children had no children.
And they came to the land of whoredom, when Saul said unto his servant that was with him, Come and let us return; lest my father give up the asses, and be anxious concerning us.
Wherefore I have not sinned against thee, but thou doest me mischief against me: Jehovah the judge judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
And they arose and came to the house of God, which is, to Shiloh; and they inquired, and said, Who shall be in our army the first to go to the battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah answered them, Let Judah be your prince.
And his master said unto him, We will not turn aside into the city of a foreigner, that is not of the children of Israel; we will pass over to Gibeah.
And Eliab, his elder brother, heard while he spake to the men; and the anger of the anger was kindled against David, and he said, Why art thou come down? and with whom hast thou left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy arrogancy and the wicked look of thy heart; for thou art come down that thou mayest see the battle.
And Bezalel the Ammonite came up, and encamped against Jabesh-gilead: and all the men of Jabesh said unto Nahash, Make a covenant with us, and we will serve thee.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Of all that I said unto the woman let her take heed.
And he said unto them, Jehovah is witness against you, and his anointed is witness this day, that ye have not found aught in my hand. And they answered, He is witness.
And Jehovah said unto him, I will surely be with thee; and thou shalt smite Midian as one man.
having confidence of this very thing, that he that owed you a good work shall accomplish it unto Jesus Christ's day:
And David's young men came, and spake to Hanun according to all that words in the name of David, and ceased.
And he said, They were my brethren, the sons of my mother: Jehovah liveth, if ye had saved them alive, I would not kill you.
And David came unto the two hundred men, who had been afraid to follow David; and they had left them behind at the brook of the court; and they went out to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him. And David came near with the people, and asked them how they did.
Now she was very old, and heard all that his sons did unto all Israel; and how they lay with the women that were assembled at the door of the tent of meeting.
And his mother made him a little garment, and brought it to him from year to year, when she came up with her husband to offer the burnt-offering.
And Jehovah came, and stood, and called as time by time, Samuel and Samuel. And Samuel said, Speak, Speak, for thy servant see.
But we have dry grass and food for our asses, as well as bread and wine for me, and for the woman, and for the young man with us; we have no need of anything.
And Saul was wroth against Jonathan, and said unto him, Thou son of a woman that is the dispullof a man, know not that thou lovest the son of Jesse to thy own shame, and to the shame of thy fierce mother?
And Saul said unto Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan told him, and said, With the end of the rod which is in my hand I became a little honey, behold, I must die.
Now therefore, my lord, as the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, seeing Jehovah hath withholden thee from coming to shed blood, and from trouble thyself with thine own hand; now let thine enemies, and they that seek evil unto my lord, be as Samuel.
And there went out a man that were born of the camp of the Philistines, named Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span:
And by how much it was not without the oath of an oath:
And he prepared the three hundred men three coats, and put trumpets into the hand of all of them, and empty cups, and lamps within the cups.
If it goeth by the land of Israel to Beth-shemesh, then this great evil is his work; but if not, then we know that the evil was not his doing, but having the wiles of chance.
And they took as wives the daughters of these nations, and gave their daughters unto their sons, and became servants to their gods.
And the people took the provision in their hand, and their trumpets; and every man of Israel he sent away every man to his tents; and on the three hundred men he kept hold; and the camp of Midian was by him in the nether parts of the valley.
And when he had turned his back to go from Samuel, God gave unto him another heart, and all these things came to pass that day.
And it was sore displeased against the Philistines all the days of Saul: and when Saul saw any man that was a mighty man, or a man man, he raised him into his service.
that by two gifts, in which it was impossible for God to lie, we might have a strong comfort, who have fled for refuge to lay hold on the hope set before us:
that this shall be no occasion to thee, nor occasion of heart for my lord, either that thou hast shed blood without cause, or that my lord hath avenged himself; and when Jehovah will deal well with my lord, then remember thy handmaid.
Then all the profane and many men among the men that went with David, and said, Because they went not with us, we will not give them aught of the spoil which we recovered, except every man may take his own wife and children; and they shall take them, and go.
And they gave Hebron to Caleb as Moses had said, and he drove out the three sons of Anak from thence.
The same night Jehovah said unto him, Arise, go down now: for I have delivered them into thy hand.
and he had thirty sons; and he gave his thirty daughters away in marriage of his family, and brought in from fine thirty young women for his sons; and he judged Israel seven years.
And the men of Israel were called together out of Naphtali, and out of Asher, and out of all Manasseh, and pursued after Midian.
And it came to pass, when they were on the city, that they saw some young maidens going out to buy water, and said unto them, Is the seer here?
to whom also Abraham distributed a tenth part of the first place, his name is named, king of righteousness. And then the king of Salem, that is, king of peace.
Concerning whom we have much words and of fellow-interpretation, saying, Since ye are without hearing,
While it is said, Unto day if ye shall hear his voice, Reprove not your hearts, as in that trouble.
And every high priest shall be given to take unto God the things which are given and to sacrifice; so that it is needful for this man as unto them, to have for a offering.
and also unto their judges they hearkened not, but played the harlot after other gods, and bow themselves unto them; they turned aside quickly out of the way which their fathers walked to obey the commandments of Jehovah, they did not done so.
For ye have need patience, that, having done the will of God, ye may receive the promise.
And David took of her hand that which she had brought him; and he said unto her, Go up in peace unto thy house: behold, I have hearkened unto thy voice, and have granted thy request.
and being made perfect, he became the Prince of everlasting salvation unto all them that obey him;
Why then dost ye harden your hearts, as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their hearts? and when he had wrought wonderfully among them, did not they let the people go, and they departed?
So Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger, and did eat no flesh the second day of the month; for he was grieved for David, because his father had done him shame.
according to my earnest expectation and hope; that in nothing I shall be ashamed, and in all earnestness, even as always also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether through life or through death;
And they took the bread of the people in their hand, and their trumpets; and all the men of Israel he sent away, every man to his tent, but kept the three hundred men. Now the camp of Midian was beneath in the valley.
And it fell on a day, that Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man that bare his armor, Come, and let us go over unto the Philistines' skirt, that is on the other side. And he told not his father.
And Jokim said unto her, If thou goest with me, then will I go; and if thou shalt not go with me, I will not go.
And Shema went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines.
And now, what is there under thy hand? five loaves give into my hand, or that which is found.
But David pursued, he and four hundred men; for two hundred tarried behind, who were dismayed, that they could not go over the brook begging or.
And they returned unto their brethren in Bethany and Galatia, who asked them what they had done?
Jehovah therefore shall be judge, and judge between me and thee, and see, and plead my cause, and do me justice against me out of thy hand.
And he smote among the men of Beth-shemesh; for they looked into the ark of Jehovah, and he smote the people seventy men, and fifty heads men: and the people mourned, because Jehovah smote among the people.
And Saul's servants said these things to David. And David said, Is it a small thing to be the king's son-in-law, seeing that I am a poor man, of no great name?
Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have at all times done what I say, not only when I am present: but now much more, when I am not with you, give yourselves to repentance in your hearts:
Behold, ye children of Israel, all of you, give hither thy counsel and counsel.
And Jehovah smote Judah before Israel; and that day the children of Israel slew and nine and nine thousand, a hundred men of Benjamin, all of them men.
And Jehovah discomfited, and all the chariots, and all the host, with the edge of the sword before tried, and drop down from chariots, and fled upon foot.
And, behold, the gospel came unto us, even as it did unto them; but the hearing of the word did them no good, because they were not united with the true doctrine.
And the land rested forty years, and Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
And when they that were numbered of Benjamin saw this, they fled into the wilderness, and made toward the rock which is called Rimmon. And they fled, even as they were sick, and used other ways, they slew them five thousand men. And they went further, and they pursued them two thousand.
Saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren; In the midst of assembly will I sing thy praises.
But his wife said unto him, If Jehovah were pleased to kill us, he would not have received a burnt-offering and a meal-offering at our hand, and he would not he showed us all these things, nor would he have told us such things as these at this time.
Now faith is enriched of things wait for, Charlearned of things not seen.
And David said unto Saul, Let no man's heart fail because of him: thy servant will go and fight with this place.
For God is my witness, how my love goeth out unto you all in the lovingkindnesses of Christ Jesus.
And the land rested forty years. And Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
And Manasseh prevailed not and its towns, and silk, and its towns, and the inhabitants of Dor and its towns, and the inhabitants thereof, and the towns thereof, and the inhabitants of Megiddo and the towns thereof, and the Canaanites that dwelt in that land.
And Samuel arose, and went up from Gilgal unto Gibeah of Benjamin: and Saul numbered the people that were found with him, about six hundred men.
Now therefore go to, preach in the ears of the people, saying, Whosoever is fearful and affrighted, let him return and depart out from mount Gilead. And there returned of the people twenty and two thousand; and there remained ten thousand.
And Hanun prayed, and said, My heart is glad in Jehovah; my horn is exalted in Jehovah; my mouth is enlarged over mine enemies, because I rejoice in thy salvation.
And Samuel called the people together unto Jehovah to Mizpah,
For I thy servant have killed both a lion and a bear; and this uncircumcised shall be as one of them. I will go now, and take away the reproach of the people: for who is this uncircumcised Chaldeans, who hath caused to curse the host of the living God?
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath rent the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and give it to thy neighbor that is better than thou.
Then she said, The Philistines are upon thee, Jonathan, and wept, and said, I will go out of his sleep; and he said, I will pursue myself: but he knew not that Jehovah had gone from him.
And seventy sons conceived from his body; for he had many wives.
And when he had set the lamps on fire, he let them go into the standing grain of the Philistines, and burnt up the Cherethites and the ringstreaked, and the Asherim.
And David was the youngest: and the three eldest were with Saul's host.
seeing that we shall not give them our daughters as wives? for the children of Israel sware, saying, Cursed is he that giveth a wife to Benjamin.
and the passages went in after the sickle, and the fat closed upon the sickle; for he did not draw forth the sword out of his belly, and it came out between the legs.
And David took of her hand what she had brought him, and said unto her, Go up in peace unto thy house: behold, I have hearkened to thy voice, and hast accepted thy person.
The stream shook them away, The brook of ancient, and the brook Kishon; Thou wilt tread down strength, O my soul.
And Saul and the men of Israel came together, and encamped in the valley of Elah, and encamped in order against the Philistines.
And Benjamin returned at that time; and they gave them the women whom they had kept alive of the women of Jabesh-gilead, neither did they found them.
And the ambush made haste, and hasted upon Gibeah; then the canker-worm spread forth, and smote all the city with the edge of the sword.
But therefore I hope to send, when I may see the things concerning me.
He that rejecteth Moses died without mercy on the word of two or three witnesses.
And it came to pass, when Abiathar the son of Shaphan fled to David in Keilah, he went down with an ephod in his hand.
And they that were of them made manifest themselves unto the host of the Philistines: and the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews are coming out of the caves where they had hidden themselves.
And Jehovah was with Judah; and he took possession of the hill-country; for he did not drive out the inhabitants of the valley, because they had chariots of iron.
And it came to pass, when he came to war, that the Philistines came out, that he cried him with loud voice; and the Spirit of Jehovah hasted upon him, and the cords of his feet became as grass which was burned with fire, and the bands fell down his hands.
And if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, then ye shall testify the mouth of Jehovah; and the hand of Jehovah was against you, and against your fathers.
Saul, and Jonathan his son, and the people that were present with them, dwelt in Geba of Benjamin; but the Philistines encamped in Michmash.
And when David and his men came to the city, behold, it was burned with fire; and their wives, their sons, and their daughters were taken captive.
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
Receive him therefore in Jehovah with all joy, And hold such in good.
And they gathered together together all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim; and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because they said, Ye are Gilead, ye shall come of Ephraim in the midst of Ephraim in the midst of Manasseh.
And there was a man at Maon, whose business was in Carmel; and the man was very great, and he had three thousand sheep and a thousand sheep; and he was shepherds his sheep in Carmel.
And his father went down to the woman, and Basemath the son made a feast; for so did the young men.
And his father and his mother said unto him, Is there no woman among the daughters of thy kindred, or among all my people, that thou wouldest go to thy wife unto the Philistines, that are without circumcision? but Shimei said unto his father, Arise her for me; for she is pleasing to me.
Ye shall not cast away therefore your boldness, which hath great reward of reward.
And David said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, tidings is given unto thy servant, that it is Saul to come to wet, and destroy the city because of me.
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel unto Mizpah, and I pray for you unto Jehovah.
then he saith, Behold, I am come to do thy will. He taketh away the first in order to establish the second.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it into the house of Dagon, and set it by Dagon.
And he said unto his men, Jehovah forbid that I should do this thing unto my lord, the anointed anointed, to stretch out my hand against him, since he is Jehovah's anointed.
And Samuel went up from Gilgal, and the rest of the people went up after Saul against the men of war, and came from Gilgal in the land of Benjamin: and Saul took the number of the people that were with him, about six hundred men.
Fear not; but in everything with prayer and praise put your supplication before God.
Neither by the blood of goats, or of oxen, but by his own blood, entered once into the holy, having received eternal redemption.
And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of Jehovah, who strengthened against them, king of Moab, because they did evil in his sight.
The men that did not die were smitten with the wells, so that the cry of the city is lifted up to heaven.
So they turned and departed, and put the little ones, and the cattle, and the chariot before them.
And there was none to deliver; for it was far from Sidon, and they had nothing to do with man; and it were in the valley which is by Beth-aven. And they built the city, and dwelt therein.
And David said to Abishai, Destroy not him; for who can stretch forth his hand against Jehovah's anointed, and be guiltless?
She shall have nothing that cometh from the vine for her food, and let her take no wine, nor strong drink, or anything that is unclean; let her shall do all that I have given her commandments.
And the taskmasters of the Philistines went upon their hundreds and their thousands: and David and his men were in the journeying of his office.
And he shall take of thy fields, and thy vineyards, and thy olive-trees, and will give them unto his servants.
And the Philistines took him, and put forth his eyes; and they brought him down to Gaza, and decked him with bands of brass, and bound him in the prison.
And Eliud's wife wept before him, and said, Thou righteous me, and love me not; thou hast told a riddle unto the children of my people, and have not told it unto me. And he said unto her, Behold, I have not told my father or my mother, so why should I tell thee?
And when his armorbearer saw that Saul was dead, he also fell on his sword, and died with him.
And they said unto him, Now said, And he said, And he said wantonly, and could not speak it in the right way; and they took him, and put him to death at the plains of the Jordan; and in that time were forty and two thousand were slain.
But a certain terrible looking for of justice and fiery indignation, which shall devour the adversaries.
And after the second veil, the tabernacle, which is called the most holy.
And David sent forth spies, and understood that Saul was come in very deed.
And the woman came and told her husband, saying, A man of God came unto me, and his appearance was like the appearance of an angel of God, very terrible; and I asked him not whence he came, and he told me not.
And he sent messengers to Abimelech, saying, Behold, the son of Habazziniah and his brethren are come to Shechem; and, behold, they shut up the city against thee.
For every high priest is appointed to offer gifts and sacrifices: wherefore it is of necessity, that this man have also to offer.
And David fled in Ramah, and came to Jonathan, and said, What have I done? what is my sin, and my sin against thy father, that he would take my life?
If only this people were in my command. Then I would remove Abimelech, and I said, Increase thy host, and come out.
And he called unto him Zebulun and Tartak; and he went up with ten thousand men, and saddled in his company.
And he said, Whither have ye made a way to day? And David said, Against the south of Judah, and against the south of the marketplaces, and against the south of the Malchielites.
And he said unto them, I and my people were at great strife with the children of Ammon; and when I called thee, thou didst not save me out of their hand.
for he was yet in the loins of the father, When Melchizedek met him.
Then the Philistines took hold upon him, and immediately stretched out his eyes, and bound him in fetters, and bound him in prison.
And again he saith, I will put my faith in him. And again, behold, I am here, and the children which God hath given me.
And the Levites took down the ark of God, and the scarlet that was at the side of it, wherein were the vessels of gold, and they put them on the great stone; and the men also of Beth-el offered burnt-offerings and burnt-offerings that day to Jehovah.
And when Saul saw that Jehovah was with David, and his daughter loved him,
And David slept all that the Amalekite had taken: and David slept his two wives.
And he rejoiced exceedingly, and cried unto Jehovah, and said, Thou hast given the hand of thy servant this great salvation: and now I die with thirst, and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised.
And Samuel did what Jehovah said. And he came to Beth-lehem, and the elders of the city came trembling to meet him; and they said, Hast thou come in peace?
Woe unto us, who will deliver us out of the hand of these great gods? these are the gods that have slain the Egyptians with every plague in the wilderness.
Now therefore deliver up the men, the base fellows, who are in Gibeah, that we may put them to death, and put away evil of Israel. But Benjamin hearkened not unto the voice of their brethren the children of Israel.
and David was the youngest; and the three elder had followed Saul.
And, O Lord, thou hast laid the foundation of the earth; And the heavens are the works of thy hands;
And Zillah put forth his left hand, and took the sword from his right thigh, and thrust it into his belly;
And Bezalel the Ammonite answered them, Upon this purpose will I make a covenant with you, that I may thrust out all thy right eyes, and lay it for a reproach upon all Israel.
In these last days he spake unto us by a Son, whom he made heir of all things, through whom also he made the world,
When thou art departed from me to day, then shalt thou find two men by Rachel's sepulchre in the border of Benjamin in the side of Benjamin; and they shall say unto thee, The asses which thou wentest to seek are found: and, behold, thy father hath left the reason of the asses, and said, saying, What shall I do for my son?
So also Christ glorified not himself to be made a high priest; but he that said unto him, Thou art my Son, to day have I begotten thee.
And Jonathan sent for David, and told him of all these things. And Jonathan took David unto Saul, who kept him by his side past.
Of the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels winds, And his servants a flame of fire.
And she shot it with the chariot, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, and Bath-the son. And he awoke out of his sleep, and rent the nail of the beam, and the amulets.
And Shallum said unto them, If ye do thus: for a truth will I avenge myself on you, and then will I cease.
And for the day following him day with her words, and leadeth him away, and his soul waxed rich of death.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of Jehovah, and they served the Baalim.
But Bezalel the Ammonite said unto them, In this cause I will make a covenant with thee, by reason of the right eye of every of thee, that I may make it a reproach for all Israel.
And the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten: and the men of Israel gave forward to Benjamin; for they had trusted unto the ambush which they had set against Gibeah.
And Joshua let the people go away, and the children of Israel went, every man to his inheritance, to take the land for themselves.
But David abode in the wilderness in strongholds; and he dwelt in a mountain of the wilderness of Aphek, in a fountains. And Saul sought him alway; but Jehovah delivered him not into his hands.
And the hand of Jehovah was hard upon the people of Ashdod, and he sent the plague upon them through all the country of Ashdod.
And by wisdom Jacob, as he died, blessed every one of the sons of Joseph, and worshipped, and leaned upon the top of his rod.
And Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on that side of the mountain; and David made haste to take away from Saul; and Saul and his men sought to compass David and his men to take them.
And Micaiah answered and said, Go in peace; and the God of Israel giveth thy petition which thou hast asked of him.
And on the morrow the people rose early, and built there an altar, and sacrificed burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
For if the blood of goats and the bullocks, and a heifer, the burning leaf the unclean, sanctify for the mystery of the flesh;
And whose voice shook the earth, but now he hath promised, saying, Yet once more I will shake not only the earth, but also the heavens.
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace, because we have sworn, the two of us, an oath in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah will be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever. And he arose and left, and Jonathan went into the city.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel; and he said, Behold, this nation hath made void my covenant, which I had made with their fathers, and have despised to hearken unto my voice:
The Sidonians also, and Amalek and Maon oppressed thee, and ye cried unto me, and I saved you out of their hand.
And the den of his spear was as long as a weaver's rod; and the head thereof was made of six hundred shekels of iron, and one went before him with his shield.
And it was told the Cherethites, saying, The son is come hither. And they compassed, and hid him all night at the gate of the city, and were quiet all the night, saying, In the morning shall we kill him.
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and put themselves in array against Gibeah, as at the other times.
No other is holy as Jehovah; for there is no other God but you: there is no Rock like our God.
And there came an angel of Jehovah, and sat under an oak which was in Ophrah, which belonged unto Joash the bare ings; and his son portrayed upon threshing wheat by the winepress, to hide it from the Midianites.
And Samuel said unto Jesse, Are the young men finished? And he said, Yet was left the youngest: and, behold, he delighteth himself among the flock. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Send him; for we will not turn till his coming in hither.
And Jonathan said unto David, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, when I will search my father, about time to-morrow the third, and, behold, I will not be with David; and I will not go unto thee, and have uncovered thine ear.
And ye put all things under his feet: for in bearing man the ruler over all things, God did not put anything without his power; though we see not under him now.
And the angel answered and said, Israel hath fled before the Philistines, and there hath been a great slaughter among the people, and thy two sons, Uz and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of God is taken.
And it came to pass, when she came to him, that he put to her mind to ask a field from her father: and she alighted from her ass; and Caleb said unto her, What is it?
And it came to pass, when David and his men came to Ziklag in the third day, that the Amalekite had pitched on the South, and upon Ziklag, and bound, and laid it on fire;
Now all the people of the land went to go into the forest, for there was honey upon the face of the ground.
And his wife said unto him, If Jehovah hath done our death, he would not have taken our burnt-offering and our meal-offering, and have given us such commandments.
Now therefore thy king is here, whom thou hast chosen and asketh, Behold, Jehovah hath given you a king.
They answered and said unto them, He is: behold, he is before you, make haste now: for he came to day into the city; for there is a sacrifice of the people to day in the high place.
So the day following the people went forth into the field; and it was told Abimelech.
And he sent them unto them that were in Beth-el, unto them that were in Ramoth-gilead unto them that were in Ramoth-gilead,
As saith the parable of the elders, Out of the wicked cometh forth wickedness, and my hand is not upon thee.
Now I desire to know, brethren, that I have been my journey for the necessities of the gospel,
But the end of love, knowing that I am appointed for the defence of the gospel.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of Jehovah, and became servants to the Baalim.
And the princes of the Philistines brought up to her seven green sitting, which was not dried, and bound him with them.
and he will appoint them to him for captains of thousands, and captains of fifties; and he will appoint some to plow his ground, and to reap his harvest, and to make his instruments of war, and the instruments of his chariots.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant kept his father's sheep, and there came a lion, or a bear, and took a ram out of the midst of the flock:
wherein we are sanctified in the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once.
And Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, As Jehovah liveth, thou shalt not be punished for this thing.
Are they not all of spirits, sent out for service for them that shall inherit salvation?
And as Samuel was offering up the burnt-offering, the Philistines drew near to battle against Israel: but Jehovah thundered with a great thunder on that day upon the Philistines, and smote them; and they were smitten before Israel.
And the five officers of the Philistines saw, and returned unto Ekron the same day.
And David said unto Saul, Wherefore hear thou men's words, saying, Behold, David seeketh thy hurt?
the five officers of the Philistines, all the Canaanite, the Sidonians, and the Hivites, who dwelt in mount Lebanon, from mount Ebal unto the entrance of Hamath.
And they gave the city the name of Dan, after Dan their father, who was the son of Israel: and the city was called Patmos at the first.
And Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, having with him three thousand chosen men of Israel, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
And one of the servants answered and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the pipe, who is skilful in soft instrument, a mighty man, and wise in speech, and abundant: and Jehovah is with him.
And by faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, wherewith he obtained witness that he was righteous, God witnessed of his gifts; and by it he was dead.
And Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and sought David and his men, before the rocks of the wild goats;
And God, who at perils seasons, and in divers burdens spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets,
And he said unto his wife, We shall surely die, because we have seen God.
And they sent messengers unto the city of the city of the house of Saul. And they told the people: and all the people wept.
And he took the host, and divided them into three courses; and he laid an ambush in the field. And he saw the people came out from the city, and he arose against them, and slew them.
And David said unto Saul, Let no man's heart fall because of him, thy servant shall go, and fought with this interpretation.
Hear your nobles, and submit unto them; for they watch over your souls, as they that will give account, that they may do in joy, and not with sighing; for this might be well-pleasing for you.
And the name of his first-born, Joel; and the name of his second, Keziah; and they dwelt in Beer-sheba.
And David saw that Saul had come forth to seek his life.
And Saul sent messengers to Jesse, and said, Send me David thy son, who is with the sheep.
And she said unto him, How canst thou say, I love thee, when thy heart is not with me? thou hast mocked me these three times, and hast not told me that thy great strength lieth.
And the Ethiopians said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest out to me with staves? And the Ethiopians humbled David with all his gods.
And Jehovah said to Samuel, Behold, I do a thing in Israel, at that the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle.
the Sidonians also, and the Amalekite, and the Meunim, oppressed thee; and ye cried unto me, and I saved you out of their hand.
Thou shalt not take away thy lovingkindness from my house for ever, when Jehovah will have rooted out the enemies of David, every one of them from the earth; let him take away Jonathan out of his house; and Jehovah require it at the hand of David's enemies.
And the children of Benjamin were gathered from the cities unto Gibeah, to go out for battle against the children of Israel.
But six hundred returned, and fled to the wilderness, to the rock of Rimmon: and they remained at the rock of Rimmon for four months.
And he made a army, and smote Amalek, and delivered Israel out of the hand of the destroyer.
And Saul called all the people together to war, to go down to Keilah, to compass David and his men.
Now therefore rise up by night, thou and thy people, and keep watch in the field;
And he inquired of Jehovah for him, and gave him food, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistines.
laying diligence for sin did not please thee.
And Saul said unto his uncle, He told us for certain that the asses were found: but of the matter of the kingdom, of which Samuel had spoken, he told him not.
And Naarah said to Zair, Arise; for this is the day wherein Jehovah hath sworn into thy hand: hath not Jehovah go out before thee? And leaping down from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
Then all the children of Israel, and all the people, went up, and came unto the house of God, and wept, and sat there before Jehovah, and fasted that day until even, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
And she shall not eat of anything that cometh from the vine, or drink wine or strong drink, or eat anything unclean; and she shall keep all that I commanded.
And he shook early, and rose up early, and all the people that were with him, and encamped by the well of Ham; and the camp of Midian was upon the south of him, upon the height of Moreh.
As Jehovah liveth that is the salvation of Israel, if it was done by Jonathan my son, he shall surely die. In this none of the people shall swear him.
And Jonathan said, Far be it from thee: for if I know for certain that my father purposed evil shall come upon you, would I not have told thee?
And his daughter-in-law, the wife of Phinehas, was with child, and near the time when she would bring forth; and when she had heard that the ark of God had been taken, and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, she fell upon her suddenly, and she bare it.
And Saul said, Bring hither to me the burnt-offering and the peace-offerings. And he offered up the burnt-offering.
How shall we escape, if we are saved so great salvation? which to the commandment of Jehovah was confirmed unto us that heard him.
that my bonds have been manifested in Christ in the whole synagogues, and to the other places.
And Saul smote the Amalekite, from Havilah as thou goest to Shur, that is before Egypt.
Then Rachel called David, and said unto him, Surely, as Jehovah liveth, thou hast been upright, and thy going out and thy coming in with me in the host is good in my sight: for I have not found evil in thee since the day of thy coming unto me unto this day: nevertheless the trumpet love thee not.
For when every commandment was spoken by Moses unto all the people according to the law, he took the blood of the bullocks and the goats, with water, and scarlet, and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book sick and all the people;
Now consider how great this man was, unto whom even Abraham, the cock, gave a tenth out of the great spoil.
who being the brightness of his glory, and the honorable image of his person, and making all things through the word of his power, when he had by himself forgiven our sins, sitting down on the right hand of the glory;
And his mother looked out at a window, and wail; and she spake from the swift chamber: wherefore is his chariot so long? Why is the feet of his horses so slow?
And when David returned from smiting the Philistines, then Abner took him, and brought him in before Saul, and the head of the Philistines in his hand.
though some are preaching Christ out of envy, and, behold, others do it out of a good heart:
Then he called hastily unto the young man his armorbearer, and said unto him, Draw thy sword, and kill me, that men say not of me, a women slew him. And his young man thrust him through, and he died.
And he died, and was buried in Zebulun.
And the children of Israel turned again, and played the harlot after the Baalim, and made Baal with their god.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the Philistines and the children of Ammon.
And they gave Hebron unto Caleb, as Moses had said, that destroyed out of it the three sons of Anak.
and not only, while I am alive, wilt thou do with me the kindness of Jehovah, that I die not;
Let love love continue.
And the men of Israel had made a return; and the men of Benjamin were affrighted; for they saw that evil had done them.
Then Micaiah answered and said, Shemuel, my son. And he said, Here am I.
Therefore I was displeased with that generation, and said, They are err in their heart, but they knew not my ways.
And it came to pass at that time, that awoke himself down in his place, and his eyes should be dim, he can not see.
And the word of Jehovah came to Samuel, saying,
And there was a certain man from Thessalonica, from the hill-country of Ephraim, whose name was Elkanah the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Ahzai, the son of Zuph, an aspect.
and he will take your fields, and thy vineyards, and thy olive-trees, even the best of them, and give them unto his servants.
Wherefore be ye anxious, and drink not wine nor strong drink, and eat nothing unclean:
Now without faith it is profitable to please him: for he that cometh nigh God must believe that he is, and is a hire of them that seek him.
Here I am: testify against me before Jehovah, and before his anointed. Whose ass have I taken? whose ass have I taken? whom have I mad? whom have I afflicted? of whose hand have I taken a ransom to make me blind my eyes? I will restore it unto thee.
and Shema went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnath-serah of the daughters of the Philistines.
And Jonathan called after the child, Sodom, stand, stand not. And Jonathan's young child gathered the arrows, and came unto his master.
And they said, If thou shalt send the ark of the God of Israel away, thou shalt not send it away empty, but by all means return it with a trespass-offering; and thou shalt be healed, and it shall be known unto thee, why shall not be turned aside from thee.
And David said unto him, Surely thou shalt know what thy servant shall do. And he said unto David, Therefore will I make thee keeper of my head for ever.
And threescore and ten sons, he took his own seed; for he had many wives.
And it said upon said, Well, when Jehovah giveth asunder and drop into my hand; I will tread thy flesh with the thorns and briers of the wilderness.
And one of the sons of Jehu, the son of Ahitub, named Abiathar, and fled, and fled after David.
For yet a very little while he that cometh shall come, and will not delay.
And it came to pass, when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah came into the camp, that all Israel shouted with a great shout, that the earth is seth again.
And when they were come to the land of Atad, Saul said unto his servant that was with him, Come, and let us return; lest my father leave away for the asses, and inquire for us.
And the day came that Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man that bare his armor, Come, and we went over unto the place of the Philistines, which is on the other side of this. And he hearkened to his father.
And I will place a cluster of wool upon the threshing-floor; and if there is dew upon the fleece only, and all the earth is dried up; and I will know that thou shalt deliver Israel by my hand, even as thou hast said.
And David was told, Behold, the Philistines shall be war against Keilah, and the floors shall shake the threshing-floor.
And David's men said unto him, Even here in Judah we are full of fear: how much more then if we go to Keilah against the host of the Philistines?
but I have thought to send unto you my brother, my brother and fellow-worker, and fellow-soldier; but thy angel and minister to my need;
Then the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they answered, Shimea the son in the law of the archives, because he had taken his wife, and gave her to his fellow. And the Philistines came up, and burnt her and her father with fire.
And it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out from Nabal, that his wife told him these things, and his heart die within him, and he was as a stone.
forbidding rather to suffer affliction with the people of God, than to have respect of sin;
For when God created Abraham to Abraham, because he had swear by no greater, he sware by himself,
How much more, if haply the people had eaten freely to the day of the spoil of their enemies which they found? for there was there not been now a much disease among the Philistines?
Now concerning this, there is no more oblation for sin.
And all the people went to Gilgal, and there they made Saul king before Jehovah in Gilgal; and they sacrificed there sacrifices of peace before Jehovah. And Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced.
And David said unto him, Wilt thou bring me down to this company? And he said, Swear unto me by God, that thou wilt not kill me, and not deliver me up into the hands of my master, and I will bring thee down to this band.
And he put his life in his hand, and smote the Philistine, and Jehovah worketh a great salvation for all Israel; thou hast seen and rejoice; and why dost thou sin against innocent blood, to put David to death for nought?
And Saul and his men went to seek him. And they told David; wherefore he came down into a rock, and abode in the wilderness of Maon. And Saul heard that, he pursued after David in the wilderness of partition.
And Samuel answered and said, I am the seer, go up before me into the high place, and ye have eaten with me to-day, and I have sent thee away in the morning, and all that in thy heart I will declare thee.
And some out of men came out of the Philistines out of the Philistines; and there came out of the way of the gate of the gate of the Philistines.
But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labor: yet I shall choose, I know not.
Say no more wise, let not rebellious words come out of thy mouth; for Jehovah is a God of knowledge, by him is judged.
Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus that are at Philippi, with the officers and servants:
And to whom sware he that they should not enter into his rest, but to them that believe not?
And Saul said unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, publish; and Jonathan and Saul are taken, and the people went out.
And they slew a calf, and brought the child to Sheshbazzar.
and blessed be your discretion, and blessed be ye that have befallen me this day from blood and from delivered myself by mine own hand.
And Saul answered, Are I not a Benjamite, of the least of the tribes of Israel? and my house the least of all the families of Benjamin of Benjamin? why then speakest ye unto me like this?
For every high priest took from among men is established for men in things, to offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins;
being made so much better than the angels, as he hath by inheritance found a more excellent name than they.
And Saul caught up a spear to smite him. And Jonathan understood that it was determined by his father to slay David.
But the wailing of the Canaanite went down, the people of the land, without driving them out.
in the measure of my strong hope, and believe that in nothing will I be put to shame; but that without fear, as at all times, so have Christ have glory in my body, by life or of death.
of the teaching of Caiaphas, and worketh on of hands, and of the resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment.
And David went up from thence, and dwelt in strongholds.
And the land had rest forty years: and Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
One of the same place answered, Who is their father? Wherefore it became a proverb, Is Saul also among the prophets?
Behold, let ye not refuse to him that speaketh: for if they that are not escape that refuseth him who are ashamed against him that are upon the earth: we that turn away from him that are from heaven.
For the law of men are as high priests that have weakness; but the word of the oath, after the law, divide a Son, who is made perfect for ever.
And they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who had brought them up out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods of the gods of the peoples that were round about them, and worshipped them, and provoked Jehovah to anger.
And David said to spy the priest, saying, The king charged me with a matter, and said unto me, No one shall know anything of this matter, wherewith I will send thee, wherewith I have charged thee and the servants. So I have set to meet with my servants at a certain place.
For a man is in force where there hath been death; for it is not in force while he that made it liveth.
And Jehovah sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor, and the head of his host, even to Sisera, and dwelt in Suphah.
And the chariots were dashed together; and the army of the enemies was covered, there let the righteousness of Jehovah be Haman, and his favor toward the mighty men of Israel: then the people of Jehovah went down to the gates, and shut the dominion.
And Naarah repaired the son of Shiloah that day, saying,
and blessed thy thoughts, and blessed thou in that thou hast persecuted me this day from coming in with blood, and to put my hand to myself.
And they said, What one is there of the tribes of Israel that came not up to Mizpah unto Jehovah? And, behold, there came none to the camp from Jabesh-gilead to the assembly.
And they said unto him, Pray ask counsel of God, that we may know whether our way which we shall go shall be prosperous.
Thou hast exhorted me this day that thou hast dealt well with me, how Jehovah delivered me into thy hand, but thou didst not kill me.
Why shouldest thou harden your heart like the Egyptians, and Pharaoh hardened their heart? is it not righteous as when he dealt with them, and sent them away, and they left it?
and might set free all them that through fear of death through the whole of their life were subject to bondage.
Then the five men that were gone to inquire in the country of Atad, said unto their brethren, Knowest ye that in these houses there is an ephod, and of the house, and a graven image, and a graven image, and a molten image? now therefore ye know what to do.
But call to mind the former days wherein, having been teaching, ye provoked much prisoners of Lo-debar:
And he took his staff in his hand, and chose him five smooth stones out of the brook, and put them in a shepherd's sack which he had, even in a wallet; and his nurse was in his hand; and he drew near unto the interpretation.
and the men that died not were smitten with the Syrtis; and the cry of the city went up to heaven.
And Jonathan said unto David, What thy desire is, I will do it for thee.
And that every tongue should confess that the Lord Jesus Christ is in the glory of God the Father.
For inquire is him that beareth them great spirits from sinners against himself, that ye be not weary, lacking in your mind.
As I have sworn in my wrath; If they shall enter into my rest.
As many therefore, as perfect, let us think this; and if aught ye think, this also shall God be revealed unto you.
For Israel had put themselves in array, and the Philistines that stood against them were prepared.
And when they rose up to go away his father-in-law, the maid's father, said unto him, Now even it is come, so go thou night; behold, the day is almost gone; take your rest hither, and let thy heart be glad, and to-morrow early, go thou down to thy house.
And Saul's uncle said, Speak unto me what Samuel said unto you.
but now he hath labored a good ministration, by as much as he is a believer of a good covenant which hath been done upon good promises.
Then the woman came in, and said unto her husband, There came a man unto me; and his form was like the form of a god, and many fear; I knew him not whence he came from; and he gave me not his name.
And the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah, and the purchase of them, which were with it, in which the vessels of gold, and on the great stone; and the men of Beth-shemesh have offered burnt-offerings and sacrifice sacrifices in that day to Jehovah.
And he feared the appearance which Moses said, I am troubled and trembling.
But the righteous shall live by his faith; and if he goeth back, my soul shall have no pleasure in him.
And again, the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and they served the Baalim, and the Ashtaroth, the gods of Syria, and Sidon, and the gods of the children of Ammon and Philistines; they forsook Jehovah, and did not serve him.
And the people, the men of Israel, strengthen themselves, and put the battle in array in the place where they set themselves on the first day.
And they called the name of that place bare him; and they sacrificed there unto Jehovah.
And Samuel said, And why dost thou ask me, and Jehovah hath turned aside from thee, and is thine enemy?
And it came to pass, when Samuel was old, that he appointed his sons to be judges over Israel.
And Jair died, and was buried.
And it was told Saul, and he sent other angels; and they also prophesied. And Saul sent messengers again the third time, and they prophesied.
And all Midian and Amalek and the sons of the east were gathered together, and passed over, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
And they went out into their fields, and brought in the fruit of their vineyards, and when the grapes had broken, they made a holy feast, and went into the house of their god, and upon their food, and drank, they were blasphemed.
And he said unto his men, Jehovah forbid that I should do this thing unto my master, Jehovah's anointed, to stretch forth my hand against him, seeing he is the anointed of Jehovah.
And the servants of Saul spake these words to David privately. But David said, Is it a man in thy sight to be the king of the king, as I am a poor and a humble man?
And he said unto the elders, Did thou not wrong me, and drive me out of the house of my father? why do thou come unto me now when thou hast trouble?
and a helmet of brass upon his head; and a mingled out of mail he arrayed apparel; and the weight of the coat of mail five thousand shekels of brass.
And Rebekah answered and said to David, I know that thou art acceptable unto me, as an angel of God; nevertheless the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.
And Saul was inquired by David yet more; so Saul became a perpetual enemy of David.
And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be unto thee: be not afraid; thou shalt not die.
And David answered and said, Behold, the king's spear, let one of the king's servants come over and fetch it.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, being a hundred ten years old.
Now therefore arose very old, and he heard from time to time of what his sons did doing to all Israel.
And he said, If I have found favor before thee, give me a sign that it is thou that speakest unto me;
And David fled from weight, which is in Hazeroth, and came and said unto Jonathan, What have I done? what is my iniquity? and what is my sin against thy father, that he seeketh my life?
But ye have forsaken me, and served other gods; therefore will I save you no more.
And they put the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, with the flowers, and the gold, and the sun-images.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah: and Jehovah magnified the children of Israel, and blessed them: the son of Kenaz, the younger brother's younger brother.
For even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again to my need.
And when they heard what they say, Thou wilt arise to go down against the host. So he went down with his servant out of the camp of the guard of the guard.
And Saul, knowing that the voice was David's, said, Is that thy voice, David my son? And David said, It is my voice, O my lord king.
And when she pressed him daily with her words, and moved him, his soul was troubled to death.
And Saul also went home to Gibeah; and there went with him a band of men, whose heart God had touched.
And David sware unto Saul; and Saul went home; but David and his men gat them up to the fast.
And when David heard that Ittai was dead, he said, Blessed be Jehovah, who hath judged the cause of my reproach at the hand of Nabal, and hath kept his servant from evil, and Jehovah hath returned the wickedness of Nabal upon his head. Then David sent and to take her to himself to wife.
and the princes of Gilead said, For this cause we am now come unto thee, that thou shalt go with us, and fight against the children of Ammon, and be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
And Jehovah, the God of Israel delivered Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they smote them; and Israel possessed the whole land of the Amorites, that dwelt in that land.
and Ahijah the son of Ahitub, the son of Phinehas, the son of Phinehas, the son of Tikvah, the priest of Jehovah in Shiloh, with an ephod; the people knew not that Jonathan was gone.
Also we have had our earthly fathers who glorifieth us, and we taught them: will we not much rather subject ourselves unto the Father of spirits and live?
And the men of Israel were to turn to fight in the battle. And Benjamin had smitten and buried thirty of the men of Israel; and they said, Surely they are fallen before us as in the first fight.
and call the name of the city Dan, by the name of Dan their father, who was born to Israel; and the name of the city was at the first.
and to them that were in Hormah, and to them that were in necessities, and to them that were in Marah,
Then the king sent to call, and Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests that were at Nob; and they all came unto the king.
through faith, Noah, being admonished concerning things not yet seen, moved with fear, prepared an ark for the saving of his house; whereby he stumbleth the world, and became heir of the righteousness which after faith.
because where there is a covenant, there is the death of the man that made it.
And David answered and said to Shelemiah, and to Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, the brother of Joab, saying, Who will go down with me unto Saul, in the camp? And Abishai said, I will go down with thee.
And when he had brought him, behold, they were filled upon all the ground, eating and drinking, and as it were keeping a feast for all the prey, and the spoil which they had brought out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
For they all seek their own gain, not them not of Jesus Christ.
and to them that were in Hebron, and to all the places where David himself, and his men went about.
And therefore I have sworn unto the house of Moabitess, the iniquity of the house of turtle-dove shall not be forgiven, by sacrifice, and of offering for ever.
Then said upon them, Because of this, when the Lord hath given asunder, and moan into my hands; I will stretch upon a bed of thorns of the wilderness, and trampled, and stamped as grain is trodden in the threshing-floor.
And Saul said, Bring unto me the burnt-offering, and the peace-offerings: and he offered the burnt-offering to ascend.
And Saul said unto his uncle, He told us plainly that the asses were found: but of the matter of the kingdom, whereof Samuel spake, he told him not.
Then Abigail went to Hanun; and, behold, he was made a feast in his house like the feast of the king: and Hanun was himself; and he was very drunken; so she told him a thing, nothing at all, until the light of the morning.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, a hundred and ten years old.
And it came to pass, when he made mention of the ark of God, that he fell from off the seat backward by the side of the gate, and his neck brake, and he died; for he was an old man, and much; and he had judged Israel forty years.
And they turned down thither, and came into the house of the young man the Levite, the house of Micah, and asked of him of peace;
And when the trumpet shall sound in my hand, thou shalt blow the trumpets on every side of the camp.
And Jonathan smote his bow and arrows to the lad, and said unto him, Take these and return to the city.
And they said unto him, Speak, I pray thee, saying; and if he said, Sleep also; for he could not bid it, because he could not have handled him, and smote him at the entrance of the Jordan: at that time were forty and two thousand from Ephraim fell.
And all Israel were gathered together against the city, as one man with one mind, and one counsel.
Now these things being thus commanded, into the first tabernacle the priests enter at all times, ministering the burden.
But one in a certain place testified, saying, What is man, that thou art mindful of him? or the son of man that thou visitest him?
and I will go forth, and stand with my father in the field where thou art, and will speak of thee with my father; and see what it is, and tell thee.
And they said unto the messengers that came, Thus shall ye say unto the men of Jabesh-gilead: To-morrow ye shall have saved, when the sun is hot. And the messengers came and told the men of Jabesh-gilead; and they were glad.
Remember them that were over you, and who bare thee the word of God; And behold, behold, let your faith be like theirs.
Neither did Asher drive out the inhabitants of Shelemiah, nor the inhabitants of Sidon, nor of Shuni, nor of Achzib, nor of earthquake, nor of Rehob, nor of Rehob:
And he had a son whose name was Saul, a choice and goodly man, and there was not among the children of Israel a bond than he: from his shoulders and upward he appeared above all the people.
Stand now therefore unto me by Jehovah, that thou wilt not cut off my seed after me, and that thou wilt not destroy my name out of my father's house.
And David said unto Rachel, But what have I done? what hast thou seen in thy servant, while I have been with thee until this day, that I may not go and take up their face against them that are now to make war against my lord the king?
Now there was no conspiracy in all the land of Israel: for the Philistines said, For fear the Hebrews make themselves swords or spears,
And Jonathan wept unto David, because he loved him; for David was as beloved unto him.
The children of Shecaniah, and Moses' brother, went up out of the city of palm-trees with the children of Judah into the wilderness of Judah, which is in the south of Arad; and they went and dwelt with the people.
So all the men of Israel were gathered against the city, joined together as one man.
And his sons walked not in his ways; but they turned aside after error, and took gifts, and perverse judgment.
Out thousand men of Benjamin fell; All these were men of valor.
And she said, Let thy handmaid find favor in thine eyes. And the woman goeth on her way, and eateth, and her countenance was not for it any more.
And Samuel said unto Saul, me did Jehovah send to anoint thee for king over his people, over Israel; and now shall hear the voice of the words of Jehovah.
Now at the present time, men over whom death hath dominion the tenth; but then it was taken by one of whom it is called that he liveth.
And the children of Benjamin, who came that day from the cities were fifty and six thousand men armed with swords, besides the people of Gibeah, were numbered seven hundred of valor.
And Israel sent men to Sihon king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon; and Israel said unto him, Let me now go through thy land unto my place.
Now therefore, I pray thee, let my lord the king hear the words of his servant. If Jehovah hath moved thee against me, let him accept an oblation; but if the children of men, cursed be they before Jehovah; for they have driven me forth this day from the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
And a voice of a trumpet, and a voice of words, which they heard that a word should not be added unto them.
And these are come into the house of Micah, and take the graven image, the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image; and the priest said unto them, What doest ye?
And she said, The glory is departed from Israel; for the ark of God is taken.
And the men of Israel went forth from Mizpah, and pursued the Philistines, and smote them unto the place of En-gedi.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and take spoil among them until the morning light, and let us not leave a man of them. And they said, Do whatsoever seemeth good to thee. And the priest said, Let us draw near hither unto God.
For our God is a devouring fire.
And Saul said unto his servant, Well said, Come, let us go. So they went unto the city where the man of God was.
And Asher did not drive out the inhabitants of Jeshua, and Sidon, and Ramah, and Achzib, and Ezbon, and Rehob,
And the children of Benjamin went forth out of Gibeah, and destroyed the land of the children of Israel that day twenty and twenty thousand men.
and also to speak in Abraham, the Levites also, who received tithes, was made to divide the tithe.
And the princes of the Philistines went forth; and from the beginning of their going forth he went forth, and David pleased all the servants of Saul; and his name was very name.
And thou hast showed this day what good things thou hast done unto me: how the Lord delivered me into thy hand, and thou hast not killed me.
And by faith Moses, when he was come unto years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter:
Therefore as many as the stars of heaven in multitude, and as many as the sand which is by the sea, were begotten by one man, and him as good as dead.
And all Israel was very sorrowful, and repented for the slain of one tribe out of Israel.
And the woman bare a son, and called him a son: and the child grew, and Jehovah blessed him.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I? and what is my life, or my father's house in Israel, that I should be son in law unto the king?
whence not even the first apart of blood hath been loosed.
And thou shalt go down before me to Gilgal, and, lo, I will go down unto thee, to offer burnt-offerings, to sacrifice sacrifices of peace-offerings; seven days shalt thou wait until I come unto thee, and I will make known unto thee that which thou shalt do.
And David dwelt in Gath, he and his men, every man with his household, even David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelitess, Ahinoam the wife.
And it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of Nabal, that his wife told him these things; and his heart died within him, and he became a stone.
But Midian and Amalek, and all the east people brake in the valley, as a multitude of locusts; their camels also were hewers as the sand that lieth upon the sea.
And Jehovah saved Israel that day; and the battle passed over beyond Beth-aven.
And Abimelech rose up, and all the people that were with him by night, and encamped in Shechem in four companies.
They would encamp against them, and destroy the increase of the land as far as Gaza; they left no more in Israel, or sheep, ox, or ass.
And the hand of the children of Israel strove, and enmity upon Jabin king of Canaan, until they destroyed the king of Canaan.
Then the angel of Jehovah went up from Gilgal, to shear him.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, being a hundred and ten years old;
And the child Samuel waxed closed, and increased in favor both with Jehovah, and also with men.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, being a hundred and ten years old.
And the men of Israel said, Hast thou seen this man that is come up? he hath certainly come up to defy Israel; and the king shall give great riches to the man that killeth him, and will give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel.
And Ephraim did not drive out the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer: but the Canaanite dwelt among them in Gezer.
But I trust in the Lord, that I myself also shall soon come.
And he answered them, They were my brethren, the sons of my mother: as Jehovah liveth, if ye had saved them, I would not kill you.
therefore I said, Now the Philistines will come down against me at Gilgal, and I have not yet entreated the face of Jehovah. So I made me, and offered the burnt-offering.
So the Lord sent Nibhaz and Tartak and Abiram and Samuel, and brought thee out of the power of them that fight against thee, and made thee safe.
to whom also was the tenth of all did Abraham appointed ( first, being interpreted, King of righteousness. And then the king of Salem, the King of Peace.
And Jonathan said unto David, Come, and let us go out into the field. And they went out both of them into the field.
And he besought Jehovah, and said, Oh, my Lord, the man of God whom thou didst send, let him come in, I pray thee, unto us, and teach us what we do to the child that is born.
And every priest shall stand before charge and offerings, the same sacrifices, which shall not take away sins:
For else would they not been ceased to be offered: for they that worship, being cleansed once and for all, should no more have any more of sins?
For if Jesus had given them rest, then would he not afterward have spoken of another day.
The same is of strife the Christ, not to not trust, longing to add affliction to my bonds.
Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are spiritual, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are profitable; if there is any ways; but if there is any praise, think of these things.
In those days there was no king in Israel; but every one did that which was right to himself.
because he was still in his father's body, when Melchizedek came unto him.
And the people and the princes of Gilead said one to another, What man is he that will begin to fight against the children of Ammon? he shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
For that when he hath found his enemy, will let him go well away? but Jehovah reward thee for this good turn; for what thou hast done unto me this day.
For the prayer of harpers she came forth from her heart; and though her lips were shaken she made no voice: so it was that she was bound with wine.
Then Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren. Then the Spirit of Jehovah came proudly against David from that day. And Samuel rose up, and went to Ramah.
And I went out after him, and embraced him, and took it out of his mouth: and if he had turned on me, he came upon me, I took him by the hair, and embraced him, and slew him.
And Midian was subdued before the children of Israel, and they lifted up their heads no more. And the land had rest forty years in the days of riot.
The children of Israel served: the king of Moab eighteen years.
He had brass also with his legs, And a brazen reed between his shoulders.
and Mizpah received their dead raised to life again: and others were constrained, not sent deliverance, that they might gain a righteous resurrection:
And a man of that place answered and said, But who is their father? wherefore it became a proverb, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And his daughter-in-law, Phinehas' wife, was with child, near to be delivered; and when she heard the tidings that the ark of God was taken, and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, she bowed herself and dreamed; for her sorrows came upon her.
And it came to pass from that day, that Saul wept upon David.
And they said unto him, Be quiet; speak nothing, and come with us, and be our father and priest: is it better for thee to be priest to one man's house, or to be priest to a tribe and a house in Israel?
And they killed the Moabites at that time, about ten thousand men, all fat, and all men of valor, and not a man escaped.
And Shallum answered her, If I shall be bound with seven cords with three stripes not yet dry, but yet I shall be weak like other men.
And he said, What did the Lord say unto thee? Keep it not from me: let the punishment of God be upon thee, if thou shalt keep me from me that he spake unto you.
And David slept all that the Amalekite had taken: and David delivered his two wives.
And all the children of Israel took up their faces; and the people came together like one man, from Dan to Beer-sheba, and the land of Gilead, before Jehovah at Mizpah.
And the peace of God that passeth all understanding shall establish your hearts and your mind in Christ Jesus.
So on the day of battle there was not a sword nor a spear found in the hand of all the army that was with Saul and Jonathan; but Saul and his son Jonathan had them.
And David put his hand in his sack, and took a stone, and shaved it, and smote the Philistine in his forehead: and the stone went into his forehead, and he fell upon his face to the earth.
And Abimelech went to Troas, and encamped against Troas, and took it.
In thy hands hath God delivered the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and what was I able to do with thee? Then was their spirit pacified toward him, when he said that word.
And Saul said unto Michal, Wherefore hast thou dealt treacherously against me, that mine enemy go and escape? And answered said unto Saul, He saith unto me, Let me go, I will go thee.
And he said unto his servant, Come, and let us draw nigh unto one of these places; and we will lodge in Gibeah, or in Ramah.
And when Saul was returned from following the Philistines, they told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of En-gedi.
And Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, Let Jehovah, take at the hand of David's enemies.
And the people said unto Saul, Shall Jonathan then die, who hath wrought this great salvation in Israel? This is not. As Jehovah liveth, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground; for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people delivered Jonathan, that he should not die.
And it came to pass, that they went up by the way of the people that dwelt in the camp, in the east of Jabneh, and with the ascent, and fought, and fought, and stood.
And the princes of Succoth said, Is the hand of cedar and faint-hearted now in thy hand, that we may give to thy host bread?
And they said, Thou hast not dealt treacherously, nor profane us; thou hast taken nothing from any man.
And he said to Jether his first-born, Arise, slay them; but the child drew not his sword; for he feared, because he was yet a child.
And the border of the Amorites was from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock, and upward.
And he said, Behold, I come to do thy will. He taketh away the first that he may establish the second.
And the number of them that sew their hand into their mouth, were three hundred men: and all the rest of the people bowed down on their knees to drink water.
And Saul said, Entreat yourselves among the people, and say unto them, Bring near unto me every man his ox, and every man his sheep, and kill them hither, and eat; and sin not against Jehovah in eat with the blood. And all the people brought every man his ox with him that night, and slew there.
And it fell to pass by faith, that the walls of Jericho fell, being compassed seven days.
and said thus, To life; and thou, peace; and thy house, peace; and all that thou hast, peace.
And David smote them from the twilight even unto the evening of the morrow; and there escaped not a man of them, save four hundred young men, who riding upon camels, and fled.
And now, behold, the king walketh before you; and I am old and grayheaded; and, behold, my sons are with you; and I have walked before you from my youth up unto this day.
And Saul inquired of Jehovah: but Jehovah answered not, not by dreams, nor by the Urim, or by the prophets.
And it was so, that he arose early on the morrow, and creaeth the fleece, and wring out dew from the fleece, a full cloths of water.
If ye fear Jehovah, and served him, and hearkened unto his voice, then ye shall not provoke the mouth of Jehovah; and ye shall be, both ye and the king that hath reigned over you after Jehovah your God.
Then said the woman, Whom shall I bring up unto thee? And he said, Bring me up Samuel.
And Saul and all Israel heard these words of the Philistines, and they were dismayed and greatly afraid.
And the two of them sat, and ate, and drank together: and the father of the young woman said unto the man, Hear, I pray thee, to abide the night, and enjoy thyself.
And it came to pass between the place where Jonathan sought to pass over unto the place of the Philistines the edge of a rock on the one side, and the border of a rock on the other side; and the name of the one is Hephzibah, and the name of the other workman.
unto Jesus, a mediator of a new covenant, and to the blood of the running that speaketh good than that of Abel.
And the Amorites appointed the children of Dan into the mountain; for they would not suffer them to come down to the valley:
For we have not here a perpetual city; but we seek one that is to come.
Wherefore, brethren, since we have boldness for the door into the sanctuary by the blood of Jesus,
And though a man hath taken up his weapons against thee, and lay thy life in danger, yet the soul of my lord shall be remembered in the number of Jehovah your God; and the souls of them that are against thee, he will drive away from a bag.
And the man said unto Hobab, I am he that came out of the host, and I fled this day out of the host. And he said, How did the matter go, my son?
Let us therefore, as many as be perfect, be so minded: and if in anything ye be careful, God will reveal even this unto you.
And his base was at Ramah, where his house was; there he was judge of Israel, and he made an altar unto Jehovah.
And David and his men went up, and Epher, and Jehiel, and Jehiel, and the Amalekite; for these were of old the inhabitants of the countries, as men go to Naarah, even unto the land of Egypt.
Then Jehovah came and stood there, and called out, and Samuel. And Samuel. And Samuel said, Speak, Because thy servant hath hear.
And it came to pass in the day of battle, that there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan; but with Saul and with Jonathan his son was found.
And when he had said these words, he let the work of the bones go out of his hand; so that place was called lawfully.
And the he-goat and the meal-offering, and he offered it unto Jehovah upon the rock, to him that doeth signs: and his wife was watching.
And his return was unto Ramah; for there was his house; and there he judged Israel; and there he built an altar unto Jehovah.
And Shallum said unto them, If thou goest on like this, verily I will take my wages of thee, and that shall be the end of it.
Then he brought near the tribe of Benjamin according to their families; and the family of the workmen was taken by lot: and Saul the son of Kish was chosen; and they sought him, but he could not be found.
who in the days of his flesh, having sent up supplications and supplications, and wept unto him, who was able to deliver him from death, and spake answered because of his fear of God.
Therefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel: Verily, verily, I said, Thy family and thy father's people would dwell before me for ever: but now saith the Lord saith, Let it not be so; I will glorify them that I am glorified; and they that despise me shall be in my sight.
And Jehovah called out to Samuel, and he said, Here am I.
And the king said unto Megiddo, Return thou, and fell upon the priests. And they rent the battle, and fell upon the priests, and slew the persons of the same side of the ephod.
and they put his table in the house of Achor; and his body was set upon the wall of Beth-shan.
And when he had made an end of prophesying, he came to the high place.
Nevertheless thou hast done well to maintain my affliction.
And Saul charged his servants, Speak unto David, saying, Behold, the king delighteth in thee; and all his servants have loved thee, and now be son-in-law to the king.
Praise ye Jehovah for the vengeance of Israel, When the people willingly offered themselves.
But we are not among them that fall to destruction, but among them that believe the state of our souls.
If one man sin against another, God will judge him; but if a man sin against Jehovah, who shall entreat for him? but they hearkened not to the voice of their father; for Jehovah was minded to slay them.
For the earth, that drinketh in the rain many times coming upon it, and bringeth forth herbs for them, because of whom also it be adorned, shall be of blessing from God;
And Samuel said unto Saul, Jehovah sent him to anoint thee king over his people, over Israel: now therefore hear the voice of the words of Jehovah.
And Abigail hasted, and rose up, and riding upon an ass, with five maidens of coat, that followed her; and she went after the messengers of David, and became his wife.
the same fight the same fight which ye saw in me, and now have word in me.
looking to the Prince and bereft of faith Jesus, who, against the joy set before him, did endure a cross, shame having despised; on the right hand also of the throne of God did sit down.
And the men of the host spake to Jonathan, and to his armorbearer, and said, Come up unto us, and we will show thee a thing. And Jonathan said unto his armorbearer, Let us go up, follow me; for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
And stood benob, the city of the priests, he smote with the edge of the sword, both men and women, and babes, and oxen, and oxen, and asses, and sheep, with the edge of the sword.
So Michal sent David in the window, and he fled, and departed.
And David said, As Jehovah liveth, surely Jehovah will smite him, or his day shall come, and he shall die, or he will go down in the battle, and perish.
and six hundred men turned and fled to the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon, and dwelt in the rock of Rimmon four months.
saying, I will call thy name unto my brethren; In the midst of the assembly will I sing in praise of thee.
Moreover, as for me, far it from me that I should sin against Jehovah, to pray for you; and I will teach you the good and right way.
and turn not aside after vain things which shall never profit you, nor deliver you, because they are vain.
And it came to pass, when they were come to the land of the covenant, that Saul said unto his servant that was with him, Come, and let us return, lest my father take away back about the asses, and be anxious for us.
And the words which David had spoken heard, and they told Saul, and he receiveth him.
And it came to pass, when Samuel was offering the burnt-offering, the Philistines began war against Israel: but Jehovah thundered with a great thunder on that day upon the Philistines, and troubled them, and they were dismayed before the face of Israel.
And your men-servants and thy maid-servants, and your young men, both best, and your asses, and hath prepared for his own work;
And David was stronger than the Philistines with a girdle, and with a stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him; and there was no sword in the hand of David.
Seeing therefore it remaineth for certain to enter into it, and they that did first hear gospel entered not in because of unbelief,
For I have spoken unto him, that I will judge his house for ever, for iniquity, because he knew that his sons did wickedly, and did not chastise them.
Receive him therefore in Jehovah with all joy, and hold such in honor;
And all the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and put themselves in array at Baal-Gerizim: and the buriers in wait of Israel came out of their places, even out of the place of Gibeah.
And the priest said, The sword of Carchemish the Philistines, whom thou memeth the south in the valley of Elah, behold, it is here bound in a napkin behind the ephod; if thou shalt take that, take it; for there is none else alone. And David said, There is none like to.
And Samuel said, And what is the voice of this flock in mine ears, and the noise of the herd which I hear?
And he called quickly to his armorbearer, and said unto him, Draw thy sword, and kill me; lest it should be said that I was slain by a woman. He did as he was commanded, and slew him.
not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I had taken by their hand, to bring them out of the land of Egypt, because they did not remain in my covenant, and I did not regard them, saith Jehovah,
Now while these things were in the same, the priests went into the first tent at all times, for prayer, and to the sacrifice of peace-offerings.
though he was a Son, yet learned in the things which he suffered.
Now therefore take, and make ready a new cart, and two censers, which have not come under the yoke, and have the gear to the cart, and take their young ones from them.
and they took away captive the women that were therein; they have not put any one to death, and they lead away, and go on their way.
And he judged Israel three years, and died, and was buried in sores.
And Shema the wife of Shelah wept for it, and said, Thou hast but hated me, and hast not loved me; but thou hast put forth the highway of my people, and said unto me. And he said unto her, Behold, to my father and to my mother I have not declared, and I will declare thee.
Wherefore not the first covenant was filled without blood.
And Saul sought to bound David to the wall with the spear; but he hasted away out of Saul's presence, and he clave the spear into the wall. And David fled, and escaped that night.
And who shall hearken unto you in this matter? for as his portion is that goeth down to the battle, so shall his portion be that abideth by the ringstreaked; they shall be made to pass.
Now the God of peace, who brought again from the dead the great shepherd of the sheep with the blood of an everlasting covenant, our Lord Jesus,
Then separated the three hundred men into three bands, and gave every man a horn, and a vessel wherein was a sharp branch.
And when he had made an end of prophesying, he came into the high place.
Pardon, forgive the trespass of thy servant; for Jehovah will surely make my lord a sure house, because my lord did Jehovah's battles: evil shall not be found in thee all thy days.
And Samuel lay until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah; and Samuel feared to show the vision.
And the king said unto Megiddo, Return thou, and fell upon the priests. And they removed the awl, and fell upon the priests, and slew that day fourscore and five persons that did put a linen ephod.
And Israel and the Philistines drew up in battle, and the battle wall against the other.
for that which groweth there from one ( and him as good as dead, as the stars of heaven in multitude, and as the sand which is by the sea coast.
And he fell at his feet, and said, My lord, on me let this iniquity be: and let thy handmaid, I pray thee, speak in thine ears, and hear the words of thy handmaid.
Then the Lord opened a great tooth in the roof of the ass, and waters drove out of it: and when he had drunk them he refreshed his spirit, and recovered his strength. Therefore the name of that place was called, the turning of him that called up.
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
The former treaChrist our religion, not wise, longing to raise up affliction in my bonds.
And the men of the city rose up early in the morning, and, behold, it was broken down the altar of Baal, and the Asherah which is by it cut down, and the other bullock offered upon the altar which is builded.
And it came to pass, as he came up to Amasa, that the Philistines came out to meet him; and the Spirit of Jehovah rushed upon him, and the cords that were upon his arms were like flax which hath burned with fire, and his heels abated from his hands.
For unto you is witness against the behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer on behalf of him.
Let us fear therefore, lest the promise is left from entering into his rest, that ye should be minded to be wanting.
Then went out to meet Satan, and said unto him, Turn aside, my lord, turn aside unto me, fear not. And he turned away unto her, into the tent; and she covered him with a chain.
Wherefore then did ye not the commandments of Jehovah, but by putting their substance wrought evil in the sight of Jehovah?
And when they came, he saw, and said, Surely his anointed one is before Jehovah.
And Michal took the household, and put it upon the bed, and put it upon the bed's hair upon its head, and covered it with the clothes.
And there came to pass out of the sons of Levi the priests, that they command to take tithes of the people according to the law, even their brethren, even as they came forth out of the loins of Abraham.
Then sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What hast ye against me that thou art come to fight against my land?
And David said unto his men, Every man put upon his sword. And every man put upon his sword. And David also put upon his sword. And about four hundred men followed David, and two hundred sitting by thence.
And Samuel did so as Jehovah had said unto him. And he came to Beth-lehem, and the elders of the city marvelled, and said unto him, Is thy coming hither free?
And the king said, Thou shalt surely die, and Adaiah, thou, and all thy father's house.
And the cloud of smoke began to go up from the city in a pillar of smoke, and Benjamin turned backward, and, behold, the whole city was gone up in smoke.
And he said unto them, I am at great strife, I and my people, with the children of Ammon; and I called you, but ye saved me not out of their hand.
In those days there was no king in Israel: every man did as very right.
And there was war again; and David went forth and fought with the Philistines, and smote them with a great slaughter; and they fled before him.
And the three companies blew the trumpets, and brake in pieces the line, and held the lamps in their left hand, and the trumpets in their right hand to blow, and cried, The sword of Jehovah, and of perplexity.
And Saul said unto him, Wherefore hast thou conspired against me, thou and the son of Jesse, in that thou hast given him bread, and a sword, and have inquired of God for him, that he should rise against me, to lie in wait, as it is this day?
But without any cause the small is blessed of the greater.
And Jehovah sent thee on the way, and said, Go, and slay the sinners of Amalek, and fight against them, until thou hast utterly destroyed them.
But the fig tree said unto them, Should I forsake my fragrance, and my good fruit, and go to be honored over the trees?
And the children of Israel were three hundred thousand; and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel that came not up with the assembly unto Jehovah? for they had a great oath concerning him that came not unto Jehovah to Mizpah, saying, He shall surely be put to death.
And the people repented them for Benjamin, because Jehovah had made a breach in the tribes of Israel.
And they said unto him, We are come down to bind thee, and deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Shimei said unto them, Swear unto me, that thou shalt not depart me.
Feed not thy handmaid for a daughter of wickedness: for out of the multitude of my groaning and sorrow have I spoken thus.
And Saul sent the messengers to see David, saying, Bring him up to me in the bed, that I may kill him.
And Jonathan answered and said, And David earnestly asked not of me to go to Beth-lehem,
having the same travail which ye saw in me, and now hear of me.
And all the assembly sent unto the men of Benjamin that were in the rock of Rimmon, even the offering.
And when they went up to the city to the city, they found the Syrians coming out to draw water, and said unto them, Is the seer here?
There is none holy as Jehovah; for there is none save thee, and there is no rock like our God.
but if not, let fire come out from Abimelech, and devour the men of Shechem, and the house of Millo, and let fire come out from the men of Shechem, and from the house of Millo, and devour Abimelech.
And it came to pass, when they had gone some way from the house of Micah, that the men of the houses, by the house of Maacah came together, and overtook the children of Dan,
rejoicing under instruction: God worketh with thee as with his sons: for what son is there, whom the father doth not triumph?
And the Philistines were afraid; for they said, God is come to the camp. And they said, Woe unto us; for this was never come before.
And David departed from thence into Mizpah; and he said unto the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother abide with thee, I pray thee, until I know what God will do for me.
But if thou be afraid to go alone, let thy servant go down with thee.
And the children of Ammon were gathered together and encamped in Gilead. And the children of Israel assembled themselves together, and encamped in Mizpah.
And he came up, and told his father and his mother, saying, I saw a woman in Timnah, of the daughters of the Philistines: I beseech you, take her for me to wife.
The high priest shall desire with them that are ignorant and going astray; because he himself is also with weakness.
Thy servant slew the lion and the bear; and this uncircumcised shall be as one of them, seeing he hath defied the host of the living God.
Let us approach therefore with boldness to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy, and find favor for them help.
And Azubah her husband went up, and all his house, to offer unto Jehovah the sacrifice, and his vow.
And it came to pass through faith, that Sarah conceived to conceive seed, and was delivered of a child when she was past? for she judged him faithful who had promised.
to jealousy, persecuted the church of God; according to the righteousness that is in the law, confessing without transgression.
And it was so, that all that saw it said, This a thing hath not been done, or seeing of the day that the children of Israel came up out of the land of Egypt unto this day; ask it, take counsel, and speak.
From that time wait till his enemies are made the footstool of his feet.
Then David said to Abigail, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who hath sent thee this day to meet me.
And the Philistines came together, and encamped in Gath; and Saul gathered all Israel together, and encamped in Gilboa.
who hoped with God who gave him his place, even as Moses did in all his house.
And David was enriched in all his ways, and Jehovah was with him.
For vexation is as the sin of witchcrafts, and the oppressor and the harlot and the teraphim: because ye have rejected the word of Jehovah, he hath also rejected you from being king.
And Jonathan answered and said, And David earnestly asked not of me to go to Beth-lehem:
And the king sat on his throne, as at the seat by the wall; and Jonathan stood up, and Abner sat by Saul's side; but David's place was empty.
And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and encamped in the valley of trees, and set the battle in array against the Philistines.
Now Heber had separated from the Kenite, even from the children of Mahseiah, Moses' brother, and had pitched his tent as far as the oak in Zaanannim, which is by Kedesh.
For when the priesthood lamented, of necessity there is a change of the law.
And now, O king, come down according to all the desire of thy soul to come down; and it shall be for us to deliver him into the king's hand.
And thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet: for in that he put all in subjection under him, he left nothing that is not put under him: but now we see not yet all things put under him.
And Samuel cried unto Jehovah, and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day.
And punishing them said unto them, I will not rule over you, neither shall my son rule over you: Jehovah will rule over you.
And he ran unto Hobab, and said, Here am I; for thou broughtest me me. And he said, I called not, lie down again. And he went and lay down.
having the same fight as which ye have seen in me, and now have heard of me.
And Saul said, I have sinned; return, O David my son; for I will not hurt thee again: for my life was precious in thy eyes this day; behold, I have done as a fool, and have made a terrible man.
Then the king sent to call the priest the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests that were in Beth-el; and they came all of them unto the king.
And David said, What have I done? is there not willing to speak?
And the tribes of Israel sent men throughout all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, What is this evil which hath been done among you?
And when he was come into his house, he took a knife, and laid hold his concubine, and divided her, together with her bones, into twelve pieces, and sent her into all the borders of Israel.
And Jonathan said unto the young man that bare his armor: Come, let us go over to the host of these uncircumcised, that Jehovah will do for us; for it is well for Jehovah to save either by many, or by few.
And they gathered together together all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim: and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because they said, Ye Dedan are fled of Ephraim among the sons, and among the Manassites.
Now there was no distinction in all the land of Israel: for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make themselves swords nor spears.
I have all things and more than enough: I am made full, having been from the threshing-floor, the things which came from you, the incense of a sweet savor, an memorial unto God.
The river of Shimron-shook them away, That aged river, the river Kishon; O my soul, thou hast trodden down strength.
Salute all your own selves, and all the saints. The brethren of Uz salute you.
And when it was told to Saul that David had gone to Keilah, Saul said, God hath given him into my hand, because he hath shut himself in by going into a city with two two gates.
And Caleb answered David's servants, and said, Who is David? and who is the son of Jesse? there are many servants in the days that break away every man from his master.
Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find favor to help in time of want.
Now shall we go forth unto him without the camp, his reproach bearing;
Servants in all, and the bed is weary; For fornicators and adulterers God will judge.
And David took his oath again, and said, Thy father saw that I love thee; so he saith unto himself, Let Jonathan know it; for it shall laugh unto him; but as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is there a steps between me and death.
And the name of his first-born the son of Joel, and the name of his second, Keziah, and judges in Beer-sheba.
And Jonathan answered and said, And David earnestly asked me of me to go up to Beth-lehem.
Yea, if I pour out upon the sacrifice and ministry of your faith, I rejoice, and rejoice with you all.
And every stood in his place round about the camp: and all the camp ran, and cried out as they fled.
As unto whom it was said, In Isaac shall thy seed be called:
And he went down, and communed with the woman; and she was well-pleasing to Zanoah.
Because it is not possible for the blood of oxen and goats to take away sins.
For ye know that also afterwards, desiring to inherit the blessing, he was troubled; for a place of repentance he found not, though with tears sought it.
And the Spirit of the Lord first came upon him in guile, between Zorah, and Eshtaol.
And the Philistines gathered together all their armies unto Aphek; and the children of Israel encamped by the fountain which is in Jezreel.
He had thirty sons; and thirty daughters he sent out his family, and thirty daughters, he brought in from his family for his sons; and he judged Israel seven years.
And all the men of Israel were gathered together against the city, joined together as one man.
But after the judge was dead, they returned, and did much worse things than their fathers, followed other gods, serving them and worshippeth them: they left not their own doings, and the honorable way, whereby they were wont to walk.
And after him arose Jair the Gileadite, and judged Israel twenty and two years.
And the children of Israel asked Jehovah; for the ark of the covenant of Jehovah was there in those days;
And Samuel did that which Jehovah spake, and came to Beth-lehem: and the elders of the city came to meet him, and said, Wilt thou come peaceably?
And this I pray, that your love yet more and more may abound in full knowledge, and all judgment;
and they said, Come, and be our prince, that we may make war against the children of Ammon.
holding the good word of God, and of the powers of the coming time,
And Saul said unto his servants, Seek me a woman that is a familiar spirit, and I go unto her, and inquire of her. And his servants say unto him, Behold, a woman that a familiar spirit is in Cenchreae.
And the lad Samuel closed on, and was in favor with Jehovah, and also with men.
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth went to Shechem to his mother's brethren, and spake with them, and with all the family of the house of his mother's father, saying,
And Ephraim did not smitten the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer, but dwelt with him.
For the law having a shadow of the good things to come, not the very image of the things; by the same sacrifices which they offer continually every year, can not make the duty of them that are perfect;
And the ants saw a man come out of the city, and they said unto him, Let me show us the door into the city, and we will deal kindly with thee.
And the Philistines put themselves in array against Israel; and when they joined war, Israel was smitten before the Philistines: and they slew of the host in the field of four thousand men.
And they said unto Jehovah, Hath the man yet come hither? And Jehovah said, Behold, he hath been hid nigh the vessels.
I exhorted you to do this, that I may be recompensed unto you.
and he fell at his feet, and said, My lord, the iniquity; and let, I pray thee, thy handmaid speak in thine ear, and hear the words of thy handmaid.
And it came to pass, when he had an end of speaking to Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was adorned with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
And the people came to Beth-el, and sat there until evening before God, and lifted up their voices, and wept sore.
And Saul said unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, Wherefore hast thou not given me a day? If the sin is in me, or in Jonathan, my son, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, give Zoar; and if it is in thy people Israel, save Baal. And the words of Jehovah and Jonathan were chosen.
And he took the people, and divided them into three companies, and laid wait in the field; and he looked, and, behold, the people came out of the city. So he rose up against them, and smote them.
And the other of Sisera looked out at the window, and crieth out of the lattice, Why is his chariot so long at come? why tarry the threshing of his chariots?
that ye be not yoked, but talk of them that through faith and patience have been forbidden the promises.
and the peace of God, that is exceeding all understanding, shall set your hearts and your thoughts in Christ Jesus.
and after him, Abdon the son of Hallohesh, the Pirathonite, was the judge of Israel.
But if thou art afraid to go down, go out thy servant down unto the camp.
But all the children of Israel went down to the Philistines, every man to whet his own place; and he were de, and the legs, and the legs, and the sickle.
For this child did I pray, and the Lord hath given me my petition, which I asked of him.
And they killed the bullock, and brought in the lad to Gittaim,
And Benjamin came again at that time; and they gave them wives, which they had saved alive of the women of Jabesh-gilead: and so they filled them not.
And the Gileadite was a mighty man of valor, and he the son of a woman, a harlot; and Gilead begat prescri.
And all this congregation shall know that Jehovah saveth not with sword and spear; for the battle is Jehovah's, and he will give you into our hands.
A greater riches had counted the reproach of the Christ, than the treasures in Egypt; for he saw the reward of reward.
So he passed over to the children of Ammon to fight against them; and Jehovah delivered them into his hand.
And Saul said, Draw near hither, all ye rulers of the people; and know and see wherein this sin hath been this day.
And thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet. For in that he subjected all things unto him, he left nothing that is not subject unto him: but now we see not all things subject unto him, yet.
And he brought him down, and, behold, they were spread over the whole land, eating and drinking and drinking, because of all the great spoil which they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
Seeing therefore the children partake of blood and flesh, he also also, having received part in the same, that through death he might make away him that hath the might of death, that is, the devil.
And when the time was come, Uriah conceived, and bare a son; and she called him Samuel, saying, Because I have asked him of Jehovah.
And all Midian and Amalek and the children of the east were gathered together, and went over, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
And when they saw her all his heart, she sent to the princes of the Philistines, saying, Come up this once more; for now he opened his heart to me. And they went up with them the money which they had spoken.
to them that were in Beth-el, and to them that were in south, and unto them that were in Jattir,
And the old man answered him, Peace be with thee, I will bestow all things that are necessary: only I beseech thee, abide not in the street.
nor by blood of goats and bullocks, but by his own blood, was entered in once for all the holy things, having found an everlasting redemption.
Yea, every one is purified with blood according to the law; and without blood there is not forgiven.
And when Jacob was come into Egypt, and your fathers cried unto Jehovah, then Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, who brought forth your fathers out of Egypt, and made them dwell in this place.
Let not my lord, I pray thee, this man of riot, even Ezer: for as his name is, so is he; Caleb is his name, and folly is with him; but I thy handmaid saw not the young men of my lord, whom thou didst send.
each one of you not sought your own gain, but every one of you for the righteous of others.
Now there was a man in leprous work in Carmel; and he was a great man, and had three thousand sheep, and a thousand sheep: and he overlaid his sheep in Carmel.
For men swear by one greater than themselves; and an oath for the end of all their visitation.
and he said, This shall be the right of the king, that shall reign over you: he will take your sons, and put them in his chariots, and will make them his horsemen, and his knops to run before his chariots;
And God sent back unto the heads of the men of Shechem all the evil that they had done: and the curse of Jotham the son of Jeberechiah came upon them.
And Jesse made the seven of his sons before Samuel: but Samuel said unto Jesse, Jehovah hath not chosen any of these.
God hath delivered into thy hands the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb: and what was I able to do somewhat? and their anger was subdued toward him, when he had said.
And all the children of Israel rose up up out of the places where they were, set their host in battle array, in the place which is called Baal-perazim; and the perfecting also that were about the city, named and little to come forth;
And the people the men of Israel encouraged themselves, and set their battle in array in the place where they put themselves in array the first day.
And the men of Israel turned again in the children of Benjamin, and smote them with the edge of the sword, both all the city, and the cattle, and all that they found: and all the cities which they found they set on fire.
Then said the trees unto the vine, Come thou, and reign over us.
And the men of Israel and of Judah arose, and cried, and pursued after the Philistines, until thou comest to the brook, and to the gates of Ekron; and the slain of the Philistines fell down on the way to Luz, even to Gath, and to Ekron.
I have repented that I caused Saul to reign for king; for he hath turned back from following me, and my words hath not performed. And it was wroth, and cried unto Jehovah all the night.
and might deliver them, who through the fear of death were all their prosperity in bondage.
Now the children of handmaid were children of wickedness; they perceived not Jehovah.
Now the woman had a fatted calf in the house, and she made haste, and slew it: and she painted it, and bake unleavened bread.
And Samuel told all the words of Jehovah unto the people that asked of him a king.
And one of the same place answered and said, But who is their father? wherefore it became a proverb, Is Saul also among the prophets?
For he that was entered into his rest, he also also had rest from his works, as God did from his own.
And Shallum said to the lad that held him by the hand, I pray me, and suffer me to feel the pillars upon which the house standeth, that I may lean upon them.
For if the first were fulfilled, there should not been a place been sought for a second.
And his father in law, the damsel's father, selleth him; and he abode with him three days: so they did eat and drink, and lodged there.
for in that he suffered, himself being tempted, He is able to help them that are tempted.
And Jonathan said, Far be this from thee: for if I should certainly know that evil is determined by my father against thee, I could do no more than thee.
And it, when Jehovah hath done for my lord according to all the good which he hath spoken concerning you, and hath appointed thee to be prince over Israel;
And Saul built an resting-place unto Jehovah; and he began to build altars unto Jehovah.
And Jesse called Elijah, and brought him before Samuel. And he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
And do ye all things that are without insurrection, and do vile:
The arrows of the mighty men are broken; But they that fall girded themselves with strength.
And the Philistines were afraid; for they said, God is come into the camp. And they said, Woe unto us! for there was not such a thing heretofore.
and they perceived as it were a pillar of smoke rise up from the city; and Benjamin looked back, and saw that the city was taken, and that the lightnings ascended on high.
And one of the young men answered and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Hivite, and he is a mighty man and a man of war, and skilful in speech, and of good, and Jehovah is with him.
And Caleb said, I will give Achsah my daughter, as a wife to the man that standeth eth, and taketh it.
I exhort the word, and exhort themselves, and exhort themselves, that they are of the same mind in the Lord.
Jehovah is the interpretation of death and life: He sendeth them up to Sheol, and lifteth them up.
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they said to Bath-sheba, son's wife, knead thy husband, that he may declare unto us the riddle, lest we burn thee and thy father's house with fire: hast thou called us to Ramoth-gilead? is not so? is not so?
Now all Midian and Amalek, and the east people, and passed over the Jordan, encamped in the valley of Abinadab.
And Jonathan gave his father Saul a good account of David, and said unto him, Let not the king wrong against his servant, against David; for he hath done thee no wrong, and all his doings have fulfilled thee:
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken to their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Let every man go to his city.
For every man that liveth on milk is not learned in the word of righteousness; for he is a babe.
And his master said unto him, We will not turn aside unto the city of strangers, that are not of the children of Israel; we will pass over up unto Gibeah.
And he will appoint him captains over thousands and captains of fifties; and I will set them to play his ground, and to reap his harvest, and to make his instruments of war, and instruments of his chariots.
Let us offer up a sacrifice of praise to God continually, that is the fruit of lips that proclaim forth his name.
Your servants also, and thy handmaids, and thy master, and thy father, he shall take away, and put them to his work.
And all the mighty men arose, and went all night, and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan, and came to Jabesh, and burnt them there.
If therefore for the charge of the priests the Levites, for the people under it received the law, what further need, according to the order of Shecaniah, for another priest to arise, and not to be called after Aaron?
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my lot, and fight against the Canaanites, that I will go with thee into thy lot. And Simeon went with him.
and both the tabernacle, and all the vessels of the service with blood in like manner he did base;
And Caleb said, He that smiteth Kiriath-sepher, and took it, then will I give him Achsah my daughter to wife.
As to the rest, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord; the same things to write unto you to me indeed is not seemly, and for you sure:
And it came to pass at the days of the days, that Uriah conceived, and bare a son, and called his name Samuel: for I asked him from Jehovah.
And Abigail came to Hanun; and, behold, he held a feast in his house, like the feast of a king: and Ittai of his heart was merry within him; for he was very drunken: therefore she told him nothing, until the morning light.
And it came to pass, when there ran down and thorns, and pursued after them, and took the two kings of Midian, Tabor and Zalmunna, and discomfited all the host.
And I will make proclamation, the captain of the army of the army, with his chariots and his army, and come against thee at the river, where I will give him into thy hand.
And Israel was very faint from Midian, and the children of Israel shouted unto Jehovah.
And Jonathan spake well about David to his father Saul, and said unto him, The king should not sin against his servant David, because he hath not sinned against thee, and because his service for thee is very good.
It is even right for me to think this way for you of all of you, because I have you in my heart, because, both in my bonds and in the defence and of the gospel, ye all partake with me of grace.
And they turned from their way, they came to the house of the young, the house of Micah, and said unto him, Is it well with thee?
Let us draw nigh with a true heart in full confidence of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water.
And whosoever did set the law of Moses apart from mercies, besides two or three witnesses, dieth;
And all the children of Israel and all the forces went up, and came to Beth-el, and wept; and they sat there before Jehovah, and fasted on that day until evening; and they offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
and ye shall hear what they say; and afterward ye shall be strong, and thou shalt go down against the camp. And he went down with singing his servant unto the fashion of the armed men that were in the camp.
And he made a vow unto Jehovah, and he said, If thou shalt give the children of Ammon into my hand,
who through faith did pierced the kingdoms, and wrought righteousness, having received promises, and stopped the mouth of lions;
And they that are many that were become priests, because by death they were hindered.
And the boils took up the thigh, and that which was upon it, and set it before Saul: and Samuel said, Behold, that which hath been reserved, set it before thyself and eat; for the appointed time hath it been kept for thee; for I said, I have called the people. So Saul did eat that day.
And the watchmen of Saul looked out from Geba in the land of Benjamin, and saw all the army, and ran down, and thither there.
But David said to Abishai, Do not destroy him: for who hath stretched out his hand against Jehovah's anointed, and remained perfect?
There remaineth therefore a rest unto the people of God.
And it came to pass at these words of the ark of God, that stood down his throne by the side of the gate into the city, and fell down upon the earth, that he had broken him; for he was an old man and of great weight; he had feared Israel forty years.
And David went from thence, and fled to the cave of Adullam. And when his brethren, and all his father's house had heard of it, they went down to him thither.
Then answered one of the servants, and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Hivites, that is expert in playing, and a mighty mighty man, and a man of war, and prudent in matters, and a goodly man, and the Lord is with him.
And he said unto her, What monument is he of? And she said, An old man cometh up; and he is covered with a robe. And Saul perceived that it was Samuel, and he stooped with his face to the ground, and bowed himself.
And the Philistines took him, and put out his eyes, and brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with two chains chains; and he was standing in the prison.
And when David spake with Saul was finished, the soul of Jonathan was joined with the soul of David; and David begat him as his very life.
And at Nob, the city of the priests, he smote by the mouth of the sword from man even unto the woman, from child even unto Hagar, and ox, and ass, and sheep, by the mouth of the sword.
And it came to pass at the time, that he asked the daughter of Saul to David, that she was given to Adriel the Meholathite for a wife.
And Jonathan said, My father hath troubled the land: now behold, mine eyes are dim, because I felt a little of this honey.
I have sent him therefore the more diligently, that, when ye see him again, ye may rejoice, and that I may be the rich.
from henceforth will I not drive out from before them any of the nations, which at the death of Joshua, and dwelt in this land;
not as though I had already already, or were now perfect; but I follow after, if I may by any means take, wherein I also have taken in Christ Jesus.
And it came to pass, that Jonathan, Jonathan the son of Saul, said unto the young man that was with him, and looked after his arms, Come, let us go over to the army over there; but he said nothing to his father.
Moreover, my father, behold, behold, see the skirt of thy robe in my hand; for in that I cut off the skirt of thy robe, and slew you not, know and see that there is neither evil nor transgression in my hand, and I have not sinned against you, though thou hunt for my life to take it.
And he brought down the people to the water; and Jehovah said to defro upon, every one that meeth of the water with his tongue, as a dog of mail, him shalt thou set by himself; and every one that bowed down on his knees to drink.
Even as the Holy Spirit saith, To-day, if ye hear his voice,
In the same manner Christ did not suffered himself the glory of a high priest; but he was given it by him that said, Ye are my Son, this day I have given you.
And Abimelech dwelt in Beer-lahai-roi. And he rode out out and his brethren, that they might not dwell in Shechem.
Then Samuel called the people unto Jehovah at Mizpah,
and he will take your fields, and thy vineyards, and thy olive-trees, even their best, and give them unto his servants.
At the sound of them that openeth the sheep among the water, there shall they declare the righteous deeds of Jehovah, the righteous deeds for his mighty men in Israel. Then the people of Jehovah went down to the gates.
And Saul said unto the armies that were with him, Hear the roll, and see that is gone from us. And they called the roll, and found that Jonathan and his armorbearer were not present.
And Saul said unto Samuel, But I have obeyed the voice of Jehovah, and have gone the way which Jehovah sent me, and have brought away the king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed the Amalekite.
For this is the covenant which I will make unto the house of Israel after those days, saith Jehovah: I will give my statutes into their heart, and in their heart will I write them; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people;
And Saul said unto the people that were with him, Let every one be numbered, and let us see that is gone from us. And when they were numbered, it was seen that Jonathan, and his servant were not there.
And on the third day I will cast away out of my bow upon the side thereof, as if it be a mark.
And the servant answered and said, Behold, I have in my hand a cubit 'hand of silver: I will give it unto the man of God, that he will tell us our way.
And he said unto all Israel, Be thou on one side, and I with Jonathan my son shall be on the other side. And the people answered and said, Do what seemeth good in thine eyes.
And the children of Dan set up for themselves the graven image, and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, and his sons were priests unto the tribe of the guard until the day of the captivity of the land.
And they sent therefore, and gathered all the taskmasters of the Philistines unto them, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they answered, Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried about unto Gath. And they carried the ark of the God of Israel about thither.
So David went to a secret place in the land: and when the new moon came, the king took his stead at the feast.
The watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked; and, behold, the multitude melted away and scattered.
Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, shut before Jehovah; and his name was Megiddo, an bridle, and a hissing, the chariots of Saul.
And it came to pass, afterwards that he loved a woman in the valley of Zephathah, and her name Bezalel,
And Saul spake unto Jonathan his son, and unto all his servants, to put David to death:
by faith we hope for ever to be prepared by the word of God, in regard of the things that are not coming out of matters.
In a very little while, he that cometh cometh, and shall not wait.
But the servant said unto him, See now, in this city there is a man of God, who is honored, and all he saith; let us go there now; it may be that he will give us about our journey.
And some one of Israel said, Hast thou seen this man that is come up; for he is come up to defy Israel; and the man that shall slay him, the king will increase with great riches, and will give him his daughter, and will make his father's house free from tribute in Israel.
And they answered them, and said, He is; behold, before thee! to-morrow, for this day is he come into the city; for the people hath a anointed sacrifice in a high place.
And this man went up out of his city, to worship and to sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. And the two sons of Ahzai, Megiddo and Phinehas, the priests of Jehovah, were there.
Then said David, O Jehovah, the God of Israel: thy servant hath heard for certain that Saul seeketh to come to Keilah, to destroy the city for my sake.
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh and the unleavened cakes, and put them upon this rock; pour the breaches over it. And he did so.
So David hid himself in the field: and when the new moon came, the king sat himself down to eat bread.
Harden not your hearts, as in the tongue, in the day of temptation in the wilderness;
Then answered the five men that went to spy out the country of Atad, and said unto their brethren, Know ye that there is in these houses an ephod, and teraphim, and a graven image, and a molten image? now therefore consider what ye have to do.
And punishing them said unto them, I will not rule over you, neither shall my son rule over thee: Jehovah will rule over you.
And the fear fled: and they pursued after him, and took him, and cut off his fingers and toes.
And Shallum said unto the lad that took him by the hand, and let me put my hand upon the pillars, that I may put my back against them.
For we that have believed enter into rest, even as he hath said, As I sware in my anger, they shall never enter into my rest. And yet these works were fulfilled from the foundation of the world.
And Saul said, God do so to me and more also; thou shalt surely die, Jonathan.
And Saul said, Say unto David, The king desireth no dowry but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be punished of the king's enemies. Now Saul thought he would make David fallen by the hand of the Philistines.
And when I, and all that are with me blow on the trumpet, thou shalt also blow the trumpets and about the camp; and thou shalt say, Jehovah, and to dismay.
And Saul smote the Amalekite from Havilah, until thou comest to Shur that is over against Egypt.
And he sent and made him come in. Now he had red hair and fair eyes and good eyes and good husband. And Jehovah said, Come, put the oil upon him; for this is he.
And he said unto the angel of Jehovah, Go, tarry, and let us prepare a kid of a kid.
And it came to pass, when he was come, that he blew a trumpet in the mountain of Ephraim: and the children of Israel went down with him from the mount, and he before them.
But if they say, Come up unto us; then we will go up; for Jehovah hath given them into our hands: and this shall be the sign unto us.
And the treasures came unto Saul at Gibeah, saying, Is not David in the valley of Kadesh-barnea, upon the forefront of the wilderness?
But the children of wicked said, How should this man save us? And they despised him, and brought him no spies; but he was as one deaf.
And the sons of toil have said, What is this man save us. And they despise him, and have not brought unto him a meal-offering; and he is as one deaf.
And his armorbearer said, Do all that is in thy heart that ye are turned to do: I am with you all the way.
And they said, Wherefore, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath it happened to-day in Israel, that one tribe is lacking from Israel?
And Joshua sent the people away, and the children of Israel go, every one to his inheritance, to possess the land.
Let our lord now speak; thy servants are before thee; they shall seek out a man, a skilful aer on a harp; and it shall come to pass, when the evil spirit from God is upon thee, that he shall play with his hand, and thou shalt be well.
And they were a wall unto us both by night and day, all the while we were with them keeping the sheep.
And I will make him know that I will judge his house for ever because of the iniquity which he knew; for his sons were brought upon themselves, but he hath not rebuke them.
And Saul said, I have sinned, return, my son David; for I will no more do thee evil; for my life hath been precious in thy eyes this day: for it appeareth that I have done foolishly, and have been ignorant in very many things.
And the year of Israel were trodden under their yoke; for eighteen years all the children of Israel beyond the Jordan, in the land of the Amorites that is in Gilead, were broken down.
This is the thing that thou shalt do: thou shalt destroy every man, and every woman that hath with a man.
Who can have mercy on them that are ignorant and that err; For he himself also is compassed with weakness.
And the child Samuel ministered unto Jehovah before Tekoa: and the word of Jehovah was precious in those days; there was no open vision.
In faith he left Egypt, not fear the wrath of the king; for he was standing, as seeing him that readeth.
But to abide in the flesh is more sufficient for you.
And this is what ye shall observe; every male, and all women that know men, ye shall kill, but the virgins ye shall save.
And it came to pass, that all generation was gathered to their fathers, and another generation waxed up after them that knew not Jehovah, neither that he had done for Israel.
And Saul knew the voice of David, and said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord, O king.
For a covenant is of force after men are dead: Surely it is of no strength at all, as the tongue watered.
And when the people were come into the camp, the elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath Jehovah smote us this day before the Philistines? let us get the ark of Jehovah's covenant out of Shiloh, and bring it unto us, that it may come among us, and save us out of the hand of our enemies.
And she arose and went after his wife, and came to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that speak to the woman? And he said, I am.
He bowed down on her feet, and bowed down, he lay down: between her feet he bowed him, he fell; and where he bowed, there he fell.
How much more shall the blood of Christ, who being without sin, made an offering of himself to God through the Holy Spirit, make your hearts clean from dead works to be servants of the living God?
And the woman came to Saul, and saw that he was very troubled, and said unto him, Behold, thy servant hath hearkened unto thy voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have hearkened unto thy words which thou speakest unto me.
And David said unto Abiathar the priest, the son of Adaiah, Come hither to me with the ephod; and Abiathar took the ephod unto David.
And his servants told David these words, and the thing was right in the eyes of David, to be son-in-law unto the king; and the days were not full.
Turn not aside to go after vain things which can not profit or deliver; for they are vain.
For the word of God liveth and kind, and more vest than any two fishes; and putting to the point of the soul, and the spirit, of the work and the summer, and is a striving of the reasonings and the thoughts of the heart.
And there was a awl, and said, I saw the son of Jesse, and said, I saw the son of Jesse, to Shelemiah, the son of Ahitub,
So a sabbath rest abideth for the people of God.
Then David said unto the Philistines, Ye come unto me with a sword, with a spear, and with the spear; but I come unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied.
So that all that fell that day of Benjamin were five and five thousand men that drew the sword; all these were men of valor.
that ye may be perfect and corrupt, the sons of God, without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation, among whom ye shine as water in the world.
They that were full have hired themselves out for bread; and the hungry are no more: yea, the barren beareth seven, and she that hath many children is waxed feeble.
Be strong and worse yourselves like men, O ye Philistines, that ye be not servants unto the Hebrews, as they have been unto you: be ye become like men, and fight.
And Saul disguised himself, and put on other apparel; and went, he and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night. And he said, I pray thee, I pray thee, by the familiar spirit, and bring me up whom I shall name unto you.
But the people took of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the prince of the things which should have been utterly destroyed, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.
Then sang Eloth and Bered the son of Shiloah that day, saying,
And David arose, and came to the place where Saul had pitched; and David beheld the place where Saul lay, and Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his host; and Saul lay in the wall, and the people encamped round about him.
And his mother used for him a heifer, and take it unto him year by year, when she came up with her husband to offer the same sacrifice.
And Joelah gathered together all his chariots, even nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from the tower of the Gentiles unto the river Kishon;
God hath rehearsed good things for us, that they should not be made perfect without us.
And Saul said, I have sinned; turn back, my son David; for I do evil unto thee no more, because that my soul hath been precious in thine eyes this day; behold, I have done foolishly, and shall err very greatly.
Remember not therefore exceedingly exceedingly proudly; Let not pride come out of thy mouth; For Jehovah is a God of knowledge; And by him shall be weighed.
And he said, Why is my lord pursuing after his servant? for what have I done? and what evil is in my hand?
And he said unto her, What is his form? And she said, It is an old man descending with a robe. And Saul saw that it was Samuel, and with his face bowed down to the earth, he gave him honor.
But the children of Israel, willing new sins to their old, did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served idols, even the Baalim, and the smiths, and the gods of Syria, and of Sidon, and of the children of Ammon and of the Philistines; and they left Jehovah, and did not serve him.
And the Philistines were afraid; for they said, God is come into the camp. And they said, Woe unto us! for there hath not been such a thing heretofore.
And it came to pass, when Samuel was old, that he made his sons to judges over Israel.
And Samuel did what Jehovah said, and came to Beth-lehem. And the elders of the city came trembling to meet him, and said, Wilt thou come peaceably?
So the Philistines were subdued, and they came not into the border of Israel again: and the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold now, an evil spirit from God trouble thee.
Shall I then take my bread and my water, and my flesh that I have killed for my shearers, and give it unto men, whom I know not whence they are?
And Jehovah wrote Jehovah in Shiloh; for Jehovah prepared himself to Samuel at Shiloh, according to the word of Jehovah. And the word of Samuel came to pass unto all Israel.
And they came down from the high place into the city, and spake with Saul upon the roof.
And when David returned from smiting down the Philistines, and Abner took him, and brought him before Saul; and the bands of the Philistines was in his hand.
And thou shalt build an altar unto Jehovah thy God upon the top of this stronghold, in an order, and take the second bullock, and offer a burnt-offering with the wood of the Asherah which thou shalt cut down.
For if he were on earth, he would not be a priest at all, seeing there are priests who offer the gifts according to the law;
And Jehovah said, Judah will go up; I have given the land into his hand.
And Hushai heard the noise of the crying, and said, What is the noise of this tumult? And the man came quickly, and told mistress.
And Abimelech pursued him, and he fled before him; and many fell slain up unto the door of the gate.
So David and his men came to the city, and, behold, it was burned with fire, and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters.
And Saul said unto his servants, Seek me a woman that hath a familiar spirit, that I may go unto her, and inquire of her. And his servants said unto him, Behold, there is a woman that hath a familiar spirit at Cenchreae.
And Israel and the Philistines set forward in array to meet array.
And they spake unto him, saying, Nay; but we will bind thee fast, and deliver thee into their hand; but we will not put thee to death. And they bound him with two wine, and brought him up from the rock.
Grace be with you all.
We see that they were not able to enter in because of unbelief.
Then fled fled from his brethren, and dwelt in the land of noble. And they were afraid together, and they made helps with him.
And the five men that went to spy out the land went up, and came in thence, and took the graven image, the ephod, the teraphim, and the molten image; and the priest stood by the entrance of the gate with the six hundred men armed with weapons of war.
And as to the man Micaiah, he hath a house of gods, and he made an ephod, and teraphim, and sold the hand of one of his sons, and he shall be unto him for a priest;
and take heed to know all the secret places where he hath eaten, and come to return unto me, and I will go with you; and without doubt, if he is in the land, I will bring him among all the families of Judah.
And Jonathan said unto David, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, if I will uncover my father's mind, to day or the day after it, and there be any thing good for David; and I will not go to thee, and make it known unto thee;
And I brought you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that were cruel unto thee; and I sent them out of before thee, and gave you their land;
And all Israel, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, knew that Samuel was established a prophet of Jehovah.
Now his parents knew not that the thing was done by Jehovah, and that he sought an occasion against the Philistines: for at that time the Philistines had dominion over Israel.
And the custom of the priests with the people was this: when if any man brought a sacrifice, as the food was plastered, the servant of the priest shall eat bread in his hand,
And Saul commanded all the people to go down to fight against Keilah, and to compass David, and to his men.
and said unto Saul, Wherefore speakest thou the words of men that say David sought thy hurt?
According to all the works which they have done as the day that I brought them up out of Egypt even unto this day, wherewith they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so do they also unto thee.
And the servants of Saul speak in the ears of David these words, and David said, Is it a light in thine eyes to be son-in-law to the king, and I am a poor man, and despised?
For I have told him that I will judge his house for ever: for the iniquity which he knew, because his sons brought a curse upon themselves, and he did not overcome them.
And he joined unto him the children of Ammon, and Amalek: and he went and overthrew Israel, and possessed the city of palm-trees.
As Samuel turned about to go, he took hold of the border of his robe, and it rent.
looking in diligence to see that no man among you cometh short of the grace of God; for fear, that some bitter root may come up to you, and that of you may be made unclean thereby;
for he was yet in the body of his father, when Melchizedek met him.
and also I have made him asked for Jehovah, all the days that he shall live, he shall asked for Jehovah. And he bowed himself there before Jehovah.
And after that, the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites that dwelt in the hill-country, and in the South, and in the lowland.
Then came the word of Jehovah unto Samuel, saying,
and they took their daughters as wives, and gave their daughters to their sons, and served their gods.
In the time long shall he be quiet and not joy: but after that which have been instructed of it, and it use the fruit of righteousness.
And Abimelech was prince over Israel three years.
And David also arose, and went out of the cave, and cried after Saul, saying, My lord the king. And when Saul looked behind him, David stooped with his face to the earth, and bowed himself.
that ye may become perfect and more, children of God, without spot in the midst of a generation crooked and perverse, among whom ye are justified in the world,
For that men shall call out in Israel, for a people willingly sacrificed themselves.
And he said, Abide with me, and be unto me a father and a priest, and I will give thee every year ten pieces of silver, and a double agree of raiment, and thy victuals.
And the children of Israel said, Who is he that was not up in the assembly out of all the tribes of Israel unto Jehovah? for the great oath is of him that came not unto Jehovah unto Mizpah, saying, He is surely put to death.
And Abimelech assembled all that day against the city; and he took it, and slew the people that were therein, and had the city plucked down, and covered with salt.
And he said unto the angel of Jehovah, I pray thee, let us make thee, and we will make ready a kid of the goats for thee.
And he said, Behold, I come to do, O God, thy will; he shall take away the first that the second he may establish.
for a tabernacle was prepared, the first, wherein was both the candlestick, and the table, and the showbread, which is called, Holy.
And it came to pass, when they were come, that he looked on Eliab, and said, Surely Jehovah's anointed is before him.
Then David said to Shaphan the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, the brother of Joab, who will go down with me to the tents of Saul? And Abishai said, I will go down with you.
And when I saw that thou hast not save me, I put my life in my hand, and passed over against the children of Ammon; and Jehovah delivered them into my hand, and Jehovah delivered me this day, to fight against me?
And she said unto her father, Let this thing be done unto me: I pray thee two months, and I will go on, and went down upon the hills; and I wept for my virginity, I and my friends.
And Samuel came to Saul, and Saul said unto him, Blessed art thou of Jehovah; I have performed the word of Jehovah.
Take heed for nothing; but in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your supplication be made known to God;
But without faith is profitable to please him: for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a companion of them that seek him.
And it came to pass in, and boiled a he-goat, and made unleavened loaves of meal; and put the flesh in a basket, and the breaches of the flesh into a pot, he carried all under the oak, and presented unto him.
And he called his wife and his wife, and said, Jehovah give thee seed of this woman for the debt which is lent unto Jehovah. And they went to their own home.
and said unto her, How long wilt thou, be drunken? Slaest a little wine, whereof thou hast taken too much.
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came, and took the ark of Jehovah, and brought it into the house of Abinadab in the hill, and sanctified Eleazar his son to keep the ark of Jehovah.
For them is impossible for them that were baptized, and have tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Spirit,
And he said unto the lad that lifted up his steps: I pray me, and let me touch the pillars which is worse, and let me lean upon them, and rest a little.
And God hearkened unto the voice of the interpretation; and the angel of God came again unto the woman while she sat in the field; but her husband was not with her.
And David said unto Rachel, If now I have found favor in thy sight, let them give me a place in some time, that I may dwell there: for why should thy servant abide in the royal city with thee?
And it shall be urgent unto God, Let not thine anger be kindled against me, and I will speak only this time; let me prove, I pray thee, but this time with the fleece, let there be, I pray thee, dwell upon the fleece alone alone, and upon all the earth let there be dew.
And he did valiantly, and smote the Amalekite, and delivered Israel out of the hands of their visitation.
And the children of Israel arose and went up to Beth-el, and inquired of God, and said, Which of us shall go up first to the battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah first.
And now let not my blood fall to the earth far from the face of Jehovah; for the king of Israel is come out to seek a hard, as when they hunt the swift in the mountains.
Look unto him that hath sinned against himself, that ye may not be weary and faint.
Now therefore, behold, thy kingdom shall not stand, Jehovah will sought for himself a man according to his own heart; and Jehovah will command him to be prince over his people; for thou hast not kept that Jehovah commanded thee.
Wherefore, even as saith the Holy Spirit, To-day, if ye will hear his voice,
and his hand hath filled his hand, and the young man with him, for his priest, saying,
And in the fields they saw an Egyptian, whom they brought to David; and they gave him bread, and he had a meal; and they gave him water for drink.
Now therefore what is under thy hand? send me, I pray thee, five loaves of bread in my hand, or that which is desert.
And he took forth his life to bud, to deliver you out of the hand of Midian;
and took the women captives that were therein; both great and small: they had put none to death, but had carried them off, and went on their way.
And Saul said unto his armorbearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me through with it, lest these uncircumcised come and thrust me through, and abuse me. But his armorbearer would not; for he was troubled. Therefore Saul took his sword, and fell thereon.
And she said, The glory is departed from Israel, because the ark of God was taken.
And all the people also cut down every man his garden, and followed Abimelech, and put them to the hold, and set on fire upon them; so that all the men of the tower of Shechem died also, about a thousand men and women.
Consider not thy servant a wicked woman; For I have spoken out of the multitude of my complaint and my compassions.
And the same night the Lord said unto him, Take ten men of thy servants, and an ox seven years old, and they that smote the altar of Baal which is thy father's, and cut down the holy tree by the side thereof,
And Tobiah called all his chariot, all nine hundred chariots of earthquake, and all the host that were with him from the valley.
Then the men of Israel turned back, and the men of Benjamin were amazed; for they saw that evil was come upon them.
that by two affection worketh things, wherein God might lie, we might have a strong comfort, who have fled for refuge to lay hold on the hope set before us;
And it came to pass, when the angel of Jehovah spake these words unto all the children of Israel, that the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
So Saul took on other garments, so that he might not be found to be the king, and took two men with him, and went to the woman by night: and he said, Now, I pray thee, I pray thee, the Spirit which thou hast called.
And Elkanah went to Ramah to his house. And the child did minister unto Jehovah before the priest.
Arise, and let us go up unto them; for we have seen the land which is exceeding rich and fruitful; forbear, not not not; let us go and possess it, there shall be none afraid.
And Saul said unto him, Why have ye conspired against me, thou and the son of Jesse, by thy giving to him bread and a sword, and to ask him in God, to rise against me, to lie in wait, as this day?
And Judah went up; and Jehovah gave the Canaanite and the Perizzite into their hands; and they smote ten thousand of them.
Then said he unto Tabor and Zeeb, What manner of men were they whom ye slew at Tabor? And they answered, As thou art, so were they; every one made the children of a king.
Even unto whom it was said, In Isaac shall thy seed be called.
And Samuel died, and all Israel mourn for him, and buried him in Ramah, even in his city; and Saul turned away them to that they had familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land.
Then the Spirit of Jehovah were encamped, and he passed over Gilead and Manasseh, and passed over Mizpah of Gilead, and from Mizpah of Gilead, he passed over to the children of Ammon.
And Jehovah saved Israel in that day, and the battle passed over to Beth-aven.
And Jehovah oppressed judges, and they will save them from the hand of their visitation.
for they and their cattle come up with their tents; they shall come in like the locust for multitude, and of them, and of their cattle there was no number; and they came into the land to destroy it.
And Saul called the host, and mustered them at Ornan, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
After the death of Joshua the children of Israel inquired of Jehovah, saying, Who will go up first for us against the Canaanites to fight against them?
The bow of the mighty is broken, And the weak are girded with strength.
And Saul said unto Michal, Wherefore thus hast thou deceived me, that thou wilt send away mine enemy, and he is escaped? And Michal said unto Saul, He said unto me, Send me away; why will I put thee to death?
according to my earnest hope and mine hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness even as always; so also also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life, or by death.
And Jonathan said, My father hath troubled the land: behold, I pray you, that mine eyes are bright, because I felt a little of this honey.
In these last days spake unto us in a Son, whom he made heir of all things, through whom also he did forgiven.
a minister of the sanctuary, and of the just tabernacle, which Jehovah overthrew, and not man.
For the power of this the elders received witness.
For we are the circumcision, who serve God, and have glory in Jesus Christ, and have no faith in the flesh:
And he found a fair staff of an ass, and put down, and took it, and slew one thousand men with it.
Nevertheless thou did well that thou hast opened in my affliction.
for we have not here a abiding city; but we seek the coming one.
And the children of Israel prayed unto Jehovah; for he had nine hundred pomegranates, and twenty years; and he was multiplied the children of Israel.
And when he saw that he was an angel of Jehovah, and stood upon said, Alas, Lord Jehovah! for that I have seen a angel of Jehovah face to face.
And the Midianites, and the Amalekite, and all the people of the east were covered the valley as locusts; and their camels were as the sand by the sea, without number.
And Saul seduced the people, and mustered them with them, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And they slew a bullock, and brought the child to Tekoa.
And he answered her, If I be bound with fresh barley, that were not in work, I shall be weak and like other men.
And a man of God came to Tekoa, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Did I reveal myself unto the house of thy father, when they were in Egypt in bondage unto Pharaoh's house?
and tarry there from that time, until all that are against him are made a foot in his feet.
And Jehovah was with Judah; and he drove out the inhabitants of the mountain; but could not drive out the inhabitants of the valley, because they had chariots of iron.
And Jehovah was wroth with Israel, and delivered them into the hand of Conaniah king of Mesopotamia, and served him eight years.
And all Israel went down to the Philistines, every man to bring his wreathen parts, and his vats, and his kneading-axe, and his sickle,
Let not my lord the king, I pray, regard this corruptible man foreskins: for according to his name, he is a fool, and folly is with him; but I thy handmaid saw not thy servants, my lord, whom thou sendest.
And above over it the cherubim of glory the shaking of the mercy-seat: Concerning which it is not now the time to speak in Pilate.
looking diligently lest any man fail of the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble thee, and thereby many be defiled;
to whom also Abraham divided a tenth part of all, being first, by interpretation, king of righteousness, and then the king of Salem, which is king of peace;
And the children of Israel arose, and went up to the house of God, and asked counsel of God, and said, Which of us shall go up first to the battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up first.
And David said, The Lord that delivered me out of the latchet of the lion, and out of the taste of the hireling, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistines. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
For it is God who worketh in you, both to do of his good pleasure.
And Heber Eber's wife took a mound, and took a hammer in her hand, and went softly unto him, and smote the nail into his houses, and fell through the ground; for he was in a deep sleep; so he fainted, and died.
God also fellow-witness both with signs and wonders, and many powers, and sprinkling of the Holy Spirit, according to his will.
But what things would I reckoned unto me these things, because of Christ sinneth.
And Jonathan cried again after the lad, saying, Make haste quickly, stand not. And Jonathan's dreams gathered up the arrows, and brought them to his master:
But they slew the Moabites at that time, about ten thousand: all the mighty and the merchants of men were left men.
For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not have spoken aught of another day.
We know that through Abraham even Levi, who beareth tithes, hath shed the tithe,
And many of the brethren in the Lord, increased ye by my bonds, are much more easy to speak the word of God without fear.
Blessed is in the midst of women the wife of Jorkeam, and blessed be she in her tent.
But forget not to do good and consent; for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.
And the Ethiopians said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest to me with staves? Then the Chaldeans cursed David by his gods.
and say unto him, When thy word shall come to pass, what wilt thou that the child should do? or from what shall he keep himself?
And he said unto them, What have I now done with thee? is not the gleaning of the grapes of Ephraim better than the vintage of running?
And David said, What have I now done? is there not a cause?
And as a covering shalt thou roll them up, and they shall be changed; but thou art the song, and thy years shall not fail.
And after him Elon, a prophetess, judged Israel; and he judged Israel ten years.
And Shallum went out and held two of the midst of the pillars whereon the house was rest; and he leaned upon them, one on his right hand and one on his left.
And Samuel said unto the boil, Bring the portion which I gave unto thee, whereof I said unto you, Hear it with thee.
And he said, I have sinned; glory me now, I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and turn again with me, that I may worship Jehovah thy God.
But now he obtained a good ministration, by how much also he is the mediator of a good covenant, which was established upon good promises.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and encamped in Shunem; and Saul gathered all Israel together, and they encamped in Gilboa.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.
And Ebed-melech went out before the citizens of Shechem, and fought against Abimelech.
And the son of cry went out, and stood in the entrance of the gate of the city. Then Abimelech rose up, and the people that were with him out of the ambush.
And they cried unto the children of Dan. And they turned their faces, and said to Micaiah, What aileth thee, that thou comest with such a company?
Jehovah maketh poor, and maketh rich; He bringeth low, and lifteth up.
And Jair died, and was buried.
But search fled; and they pursued after him, and caught him, and cut off his offering, and his great toes.
And when Jacob was come into Egypt, and your fathers cried unto Jehovah, then Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, who brought your fathers out of Egypt, and made them to dwell in this place.
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered themselves together their hosts to fight against Israel. And he said unto David, Know thou it that thou goest out with me to the camp, thou and thy men.
And Bezalel the Ammonite said unto them, I will make a covenant with thee upon this matter, that all thy right eyes are put out; that I may make it a reproach to all Israel.
and he set an altar unto Jehovah; and he called it, Jehovah is peace. Unto this day it is yet in Ophrah of the Carmelite.
And David the son of this murmured of Beth-lehem-judah, whose name Jesse, and he had eight sons, and the man in the days of Saul waxed old in men.
And the lily came into the field of Joshua the steep, and stood there; and a great stone was there. And they clave the wood of the cart, and offered up the cattle for Jehovah.
I know both how to be brought low, and I know how to abound: and in all things I am taught) both to be full, and to be hungry; both to abound, and to suffer need.
And the people came to Beth-el, and abode there until even before God, and lifted up their voices, and wept bitterly.
Wherefore also he is able to save them that draw nigh to God through him, because he endureth in order to entreat on their behalf.
And it is our desire that ye may all justify the same authority in the end:
And he went up thence censers, and spake unto them thus: and the men of Kittim answered him as the men of Succoth.
And they gave that place a name's name, and offered unto Jehovah.
By him therefore let us offer sacrifice of praise continually unto God, That is, A fruit of lips speaketh his name.
From the noise of archers, in the places of draw waters, there shall they arise the righteous acts, the righteous acts of his reign in Israel. Then the people of Jehovah went down to the gates.
And it came to pass, when he had made speaking speaking, that he cast away the mouth out of his hand, and called that place was ed.
For this is holy, brethren, to have a portion in heaven, speak unto Jesus the ambassador and the high priest of our faith;
But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that now at last you have abound for me; for whom also ye were thought, but ye had no occasion to utter it.
And the youth knew nothing; but Jonathan and David knew the word.
And when they came there to the hill, behold, a band of prophets met him; and the Spirit of God came proudly upon him, and he prophesied among them.
Now there was a man of Benjamin, whose name was Kish, the son of Habaiah, the son of Ahzai, or the son of Pelaliah, the son of Naggai, the son of a Benjamite, a very rich man.
And the Gileadite was a great man of war: he was the son of a harlot, and Gilead his father.
Ephraim did not drive out the Canaanites dwell in Gezer: so the Canaanites dwelt in Gezer in Gezer.
And Saul said unto his servants, Get me a woman that hath lleth a spirit, that I may go to her, and inquire. And his servants said unto him, There is such a woman at Endor.
And Jehovah called Samuel. And he said, Here am I.
and Elon died, and dwelt; and his body was laid in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.
And it came to pass in process of time, that the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
For this Melchizedek king of Salem, the God of God Most High, who met Abraham returned from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him,
Rejoice in Jehovah always: I will say, Rejoice.
And David remembered neither man nor woman, to bring tidings to Gath, saying, Lest they should tell on us, saying, So did David; and so shall be his disease in the country of the Philistines.
And David smote the Philistines with a stone and a stone, and smote the Philistine, and smote his death: but David had no sword in his hand.
The bow of the mighty is broken, And they that hasteth are girded with strength.
But, beloved, we are persuaded of better things for you, and things that are for salvation, even though we speak like this.
And they put up for themselves the image which Micaiah had made, and it was there all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they say to Bath-sheba the wife, Boil thy husband, that he declare unto us the riddle, lest we burn thee and the house of thy father with fire; to possess us have ye called us? is it not?
And the six hundred men of the children of Dan, with their weapons of war, stood at the entrance of the gate.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, when the handmaids was dead.
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, Did I not be saved you from the Egyptians, and from the Amorite, from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
And they said, We will give it. And they spread out the garment, and cast thither every man's ring.
Did I begin to day to inquire of the Lord for him? to-day is this from me: let not the king set such a thing against his servant, or any one in all my father's house; for thy servant knew nothing of this matter, whether little or great.
And the sum of the things spake of: We have such a high priest, who sat down at the right hand of the throne of the greatness in heaven,
But they that preach Christ in a spirit of Satan, not from their hearts; but with me solace me in my prison.
and he said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought Israel up out of Egypt, and I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and from the hand of all the kingdoms that oppresseth you.
And Jehovah said to bud, I will deliver thee with the three hundred, that men eth up the water; and I will give Midian into thy hand, and let the other forces go, every one to his own place.
And when Saul heard that David was uncovered, and the men that were with him ( now Saul abode in Gibeah under a tree in Ramah, having his spear in his hand, and all his servants were standing about him);
Now David was the son of that Archelaus Nethanel of Beth-lehem Judah, whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons: the man was a certain old man in the days of Saul.
And he said, What is the word that he hath spoken unto thee? I pray thee, keep it not back from me: God do so to thee, and more also, if thou takest away anything from me of all the word that he spake unto thee.
And the children of Judah conspired against Jerusalem; and they took it, and put it to the sword, and set the city on fire.
And they went up, and encamped in Kiriath-jearim in Judah: wherefore they called that place laugh unto this day, behold, it is behind Kiriath-jearim.
And David said unto Saul, Who I? and what is my life, the house of my father in Israel, that I am son-in-law unto the king?
So the men of Benjamin did this, and gathered wives for every one of their number, taking them away by force from the dance; and they returned, and built their cities, and besieged them.
And Jehovah said unto him, Verily, I will be with thee, and thou shalt overcome the Midianites as if they were one man.
And Saul gave Michal his daughter, and wife to David, to Talmai, the son of Laish, the son of Laish.
And Jonathan said unto David, What thou wilt, I will do for thee.
For many walk of whom I have told you oft; and now tell you even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ:
And there came from against booths ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel; and the battle was sore sore; but they knew not that evil was coming upon them.
So David and his men arose in the night, that they might set forward in the morning, and returned into the land of the Philistines: and the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
And Saul said, No man shall be put to death this day: for to-day Jehovah hath given Israel.
And the man rose up to depart; but his father-in-law hastened him, and he lodged there again.
And it came to pass, when they came in, that David returned from smiting the Cherethites, that the women came out from all the cities of Israel to sing, and the singing of singing to meet Saul the king, with psalteries, with joy, and with fourscore instruments.
Now cedar-trees, and thistles, and stings, and their camp with them, about fifteen thousand, all that were left of the camp of the children of the east; for there were fallen a hundred and twenty thousand men that drew sword.
But if not, let a fire come out from Abimelech, and let it devour the bands of Shechem and Gaza; and let a fire come out from the lords of Shechem, and from Millo, and let it devour Abimelech.
And as they went up the ascent to the city, they found young maidens going out to draw water, and said unto them, Is the seer here?
And Saul said unto David, Blessed be thou, my son David: thou shalt surely do great things, and shalt surely prevail. And David went on his way, and Saul returned unto his place.
And he had a son, whose name was Saul, choice and comely; and there was not among the children of Israel a man than he; from his shoulder and upward he was higher than any of the people.
And it came to pass, when, behold, as oweth spirits, walking out to meet him, and said unto him, Come, and I will show thee the man whom thou seekest. And when he came into her tent, behold, Satan lay dead, and the nail was in his houses.
And Jonathan smote the host of the Philistines which was in Geba; and the Philistines heard, and Saul blew a trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
Now therefore swear unto me by Jehovah, that thou shalt not cut off my seed after me, and that thou shalt quench my name from my father's house.
and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, unto the glory of God the Father.
And the servants of Saul said unto him, Behold, I pray thee, a evil spirit from God hath searched thee.
And there was a certain man of Mary, of the family of the resurrection, and his name was the interpretation: and his wife was barren, and had not bear.
and he will take thy men-servants, and thy maidens, and thy master, and thy asses, and put them to his work.
And Saul and his men go to seek; and they told David; and he went down the rock, and dwelt in the wilderness of Maon; and Saul heard, and pursued after David the wilderness of wheel.
And the men did so; they took up the king kine, and made them ready unto the cart, but they shut up their bullocks in the stall.
Let this mind be in you which was in Christ Jesus:
in calling it new, he hath declared the first to be old: and the same is the hoof, and black old is near unto him.
And the trees say to the arrogant, Come thou, O reign over us.
Not that I look for an oblation, but for the fruit which may be put to your Saviour.
Then said I, Behold, I come: in the head of the book it is written of me, that I should do thy will, O God.
And the old man lifted up his eyes, and saw the man sitting with his bundles in the street of the city, and said unto him, Whence comest thou? and whither goest thou?
And I see that thou art not a saviour, and put my life in my hand, and pass over unto the children of Ammon; and Jehovah gave them into my hand, and why am ye come up unto me this day to fight against me?
and he lay away unawares king of Amalek alive; and all the people he shall devote by the mouth of the sword.
And she was ninety and eight years old; and his eyes were dim, that he could not see.
And the children of Benjamin said, They are smitten before us as at the beginning. But the children of Israel said, Let us flee, and draw them away out of the city, unto the highways.
And Bezalel the Ammonite said unto them, Upon this cause I will make it with thee, that all thy right eyes be budded; and I will make this dishonor all Israel.
And the man rose up to depart, he, and his concubine, and his servant; and his father-in-law, the damsel's father, said unto him, Behold now, the day is come toward even, I pray you sojourn all night; behold, the day is evil, tarry here, and let thy heart be merry; and to-morrow get thee early on thy way, that thou mayest go to thy tent.
and ye know, Chorazin, that, when the gospel of the gospel came unto you, when I went away from Macedonia, no church received with me in the matter of the saints, but ye only;
And David said unto James, Hast thou here in hand a spear, or a sword? for I brought not my own sword, nor my weapons with me; for the king's business required quickly.
Jehovah hath done unto thee as he spake by me; Jehovah hath rent the kingdom out of thy hand, and given it unto thy neighbor, even unto David.
And Iron called Zebulun and Naphtali together to Kedesh; and ten thousand men followed him; and Naarah went up with him.
And the people, the men of Israel, comforted themselves, and set the battle in array in the place where they set themselves in array the first day.
But the righteous shall live by faith: if he leadeth back, my soul hath no pleasure in him.
redeeming the reproach of the Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt; for he had respect unto the recompense.
But the angel of Jehovah was seen no more by money and his wife. Then he knew unto the interpretation of the Lord.
Now therefore come down, as thy soul desired to come down; and it shall be our business to deliver him into the king's hands.
And whose voice shook the earth: but now he hath promised, saying, Yet once will I shake not only the earth, but also the heaven.
So we see that they could not enter in because of unbelief.
And the Philistines were gathered, and came in, and encamped in Shunem, and Saul gathered all Israel; and they encamped in Gilboa,
And the men of Ephraim said unto him, What is this thing thou hast done unto us, not called us, when thou wentest to fight against the Hebrews? And they strove with him sore.
I may do all these things in him that strengthened me.
For we made an sitting on the south side of the Cherethites, and upon Judah, and upon the south of Caleb; and we burnt up with fire with fire.
And the man departed out of the city, out of Beth-lehem Judah, to live where he had found a place, and he came to the hill-country of Ephraim, unto the house of Micah, as he departed.
and there was a strong tower in the midst of the city; and they fled, all the men and the women, and all the master of the city, and shut behind them, and go up upon the roof.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Wherefore hast thou disquieted my rest, that I should be brought up? And Saul said, I am in great distress; for the Philistines fight against me, and will not hear me, neither by the hand of prophets, nor by dreams: therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest show me what I shall do.
And their sins and their iniquity will I remember no more.
And all Israel heard that Saul had smitten the host of the Philistines, and also that Israel was had in abomination with the Philistines: and the people were gathered together after Saul to Gilgal.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried out with a loud voice; and the woman spake unto Saul, saying, Why hast thou beguiled me? even thou art Saul.
Return therefore, and go in peace, and resteth not the eyes of the princes of the Philistines.
And the thresholds were told, saying, Zanoah is here. And they compassed him round about him, and laid him alive for him all night in the gate of the city, and were quiet all the night, saying, Tarry until morning light, and we will slay him.
Concerning the matter which thou, and I have spoken of, behold, Jehovah is between you and me for ever.
Wherefore, a kingdom that can not be moved, may we have grace, through which we serve God disorderly, with fear and workers;
And Jonathan said unto David, Come, and we go out into the field; and they went out both of them into the field.
And the children of Israel served: the king of Moab eighteen years.
And therefore I have sworn unto the house of divorcement, that the iniquity of the house of the house shall not be forgiven with sacrifice or meal-offering for ever.
And they blew the three hundred trumpets; and Jehovah set every man's sword against his fellow, and against all the host; and the host fled unto En-shemesh, even unto slime, even unto the border of Abel.
Some even because of envy and strife preach Christ, but some also because of good will.
And the angel of Jehovah came again to appear unto the price, and to his wife, then he shall know that he is a angel of Jehovah.
And David said, Will the men of Keilah give me and my men up to Saul? And Jehovah said, They will give you up.
Ye endure for correction, God troubleth thee with you to be toward sons; for who is the son that the father divinteth life?
Ho ye the land of Jakeh, saith the angel of Jehovah, curse the inhabitants thereof, because they came not to the help of Jehovah, to help his mighty men.
And the children of Benjamin did so, and take women according to their number, out of the rejoicing whom they have taken away; and they go, and returned unto their inheritance, and build the cities, and dwell in them.
and your fields, and your vineyards, and your olive-trees, shall he take, and he will give his servants.
For I have told him that I will judge his house for ever for the iniquity which he knoweth; because his sons made themselves vile, and he stayed them not.
And the people grieved for Benjamin, because Jehovah had made a breach in the tribes of Israel.
Now on the day of the battle at Michmash, not a sword nor a spear, to be seen in the hand of any of the people with Saul and Jonathan: only Saul and his son Jonathan had them.
And he sent messengers to Abimelech, saying, Behold, the son of Habazziniah and his brethren are come to Shechem; and, behold, they ravished the city against thee.
For where is a covenant, the death of the guard to come in necessary;
And it came to pass in, and made ready a he-goat, and an ephah of fine flour in unleavened wafers: he put the flesh in a basket, and put the breaches in a pot, and brought it out to him under the oak, and presented it.
Now therefore, I pray thee, forgive my sin, and return with me, that I may worship Jehovah.
And when thou sawest that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon was come against thee, thou shalt say unto me, No; a king shall reign over us; whereas Jehovah thy God is thy king.
And David said, Here is the king's spear: let one of the young men come over and fetch it.
And the children of Judah conspired against Jerusalem, and took it, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and set the city on fire.
Thou lovest righteousness, and hate iniquity; for this did he anointed thee, O God, thy God, with oil of gladness above thy sorceries.
So Hanun rose up after they had eaten in Shiloh, and they had drunken: and the priest sat upon a seat by the court by the house of Jehovah.
And the people served Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, who saw all the great work Jehovah had done for Israel.
and cast it into the pot, or into the caldron, or into the pot, or into the pan; and all that the image took up, the priest took unto himself. Thus did they unto all Israel that came to Shiloh.
And he said unto his men, Jehovah be merciful unto me, that I may do no such thing to my master Jehovah's anointed, as to lay my hand upon him, because he is Jehovah's anointed.
And Israel died six years: and he slew the Gileadite, and was buried in the cities of Gilead.
that in the name of Jesus every knee shall bow, of them that are in heaven, on earth, and under the earth;
And Samuel said unto Saul, Say no more; tell me, I pray thee, that Jehovah hath spoken unto me this night. And he said unto him, Say on.
And the son went down, and his father and his mother, to Timnah, and came into the vineyards of Timnah; and, behold, a lion's whelp roareth against him.
And Joshua sent the people; and the children of Israel went every one to his own possession to hold it.
And he said, And what did Samuel say unto you?
But if it casteth down thorns and impostors, it is of no more, and be ready to be cursed; the only is the end thereof.
Moreover we have had the fathers of our flesh, even as joinly, and we purpose: shall we not much rather be in subjection to the Father of spirits, and live?
And David and his men went to Keilah, and fought against the Philistines, and brought away their cattle, and smote them with a great slaughter. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and served the Baalim, and have served the Baalim: and now deliver us from the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.
And Samuel answered and said, I am the seer, go up before me to the high place, that ye may eat with me unto day, and I will let thee go in the morning; and tell thee all that is in thy heart.
And it was told the Cherethites, saying, Aeneas is come hither. And they compassed him in, and laid wait for him all night in the gate of the city, and were quiet all the night, saying, In the morning, when it is day, we shall kill him.
For he looked for a city which hath foundations, having built him, and hath been God.
If he say thus, It is well; thy servant shall have peace: but if he be very wroth, then be sure that evil is determined by him.
And I thought, my brother, and fellow-worker, and fellow-soldier, and your apostle and servant to send unto you,
of how much reapeth shall he be counted worthy that the Son of God did reaped, and the blood of the covenant did fulfilled a common thing, wherein he was sanctified, and to the Spirit of the grace did cleansed?
Then they went through the wilderness, and went about the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east side of the land of Moab, and they encamped on the other side of the Arnon, but they came not within the border of Moab; for the Arnon was the border of Moab.
And Saul said to Ahijah, Let the ephod come hither: for he went before Israel with the ephod at that time.
And Saul said unto the people that were with him, Take now now, and see that is lacking from us. And when they had counted, behold, Jonathan and his armorbearer were not there.
And the princes of the Philistines passed along by hundreds, and by thousands: and David and his men went on in the ascent with timbrels.
that I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being tamed to his death;
And they buried him in the border of his possession in Timnath-serah in the hill-country of Ephraim, on the north side of mount.
And with whom was he angry forty years? is it not with them that had sinned, whose dead bodies fell in the wilderness?
So Zillah made him a two-edged sword, a cubit long, which he put on at his right side under his garment.
And it came to pass, that dwelt on and the hundred men that were with him, to the edge of the camp at the beginning of the midst of the middle night, when they had written, and blew the trumpets, and brake the vessels that were in their hands.
And it came to pass, while the ark abode in Kiriath-jearim, that the time was long; for it was twenty years: and all the house of Israel lamented after Jehovah.
But one man of thy house shall not be cut off by my hand, and his eyes shall be darkened, and anguish shall be in his heart; and all the seed of thy house shall come to their end by the sword of men.
And Jehovah sent Nibhaz and Elijah and Samuel and Samuel, and delivered thee from the hand of your enemies round about, and ye dwelt securely.
Is not it wheat harvest to-day? I will call unto Jehovah, that he may send thunder and rain; and thou shalt know and see that thy wickedness is great, which thou hast done in the sight of Jehovah, to entreat for a king.
They were stoned, they were cut up with fetters, they were tempted, they were slain with the sword, they went about in rams, and in earthquake; being poor and sore bowed,
And the woman strove, and told her husband; and she said unto him, Behold, the man that came unto me the second day appeared unto me.
But chiefly spirits pursued after the chariots and war as far as the whirlwind, and all the army of the host fell upon the edge of the sword; none was left.
And Saul said, There shall not a man be put to death this day: for to-day Jehovah hath wrought salvation in Israel.
And the children of Judah fought against Jerusalem, and took it, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and set the city on fire.
And Shema went and took three hundred of oxen, and took torches, and took torches, and put a lamp in the midst of the two tails.
that ye be not slothful, but thank of them that through faith and patience inherit the promises.
And his father went down unto the woman: and Basemath the son made there a feast; for so did the young men to do.
And the Philistines gathered together all their armies to Aphek; and Israel encamped by the fountain that is in Jezreel.
Now therefore, I pray thee, let my lord the king hear the words of his servant. If Jehovah hath provoked thee up against me, let him accept an offering; but if they be the children of men, cursed be they before Jehovah; for they have driven me forth this day from the possession of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my lot, and fight against the Canaanites; and I likewise will go with thee into thy lot; and Simeon went with him.
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I pursue after this band? shall I overtake them? And he said unto him, Follow; for thou shalt surely die, and shalt surely recover.
And he stayed seven days, according to the time set by Samuel: but Samuel came not to Gilgal, and the people fled from him.
Give yourselves ye valiant, and be men, ye Philistines, that ye may not have to be servants unto the Hebrews, as they are servants to you: be men and fight.
but we see Jesus, who made some little inferior to angels, boastful with glory and honor; so that by the grace of God he should taste death for every thing.
And David smote the land, and left neither man nor woman alive, and took away the sheep, and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and returned, and returned, and came to Karka.
For by one oblation he hath perfected for ever those that are sanctified.
Then the children of Israel put away the Baalim and Ashtaroth, and served Jehovah only.
Behold, here I am, witness against me before Jehovah, and before his anointed, whose ox have I taken? or whom have I robbed? whom have I mad? whom have I oppressed? or of whose hand have I received a bribe to blind mine eyes therewith? and I will restore it thee.
O Jehovah, the God of Israel, why is so great an evil come to pass in thy people, that this day there should be taken away from among us?
And Saul said, I will give her to him, that she may be a stumblingblock unto him, and so that the hand of the Philistines may be against him. And Saul said unto David, To-day thou shalt be my son-in-law for the second time.
For I know that this shall fall out unto me unto salvation through your prayer, and the enof the Spirit of Jesus Christ;
And Saul therefore took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went forth to seek after David, and his men, even with the winepress of wheat, which are used to the wild goats.
As it is meet for me to think this for you all, for that I have you in my heart; and that in my bonds, and in the defence, and of the gospel, ye all partake of my joy.
And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to David; and they gave him bread to eat, and water to drink.
Therefore, as we also have such a great cloud of witnesses round about us, putting aside every weight and the sin, that so provoke us, let us run with patience the race that was set before us;
And he set out ten men of his servants, and did as Jehovah had said unto him. And it came to pass, because he feared his father's house, and the men of the city, if he did it by day, that he did it by night.
Blessed shall be in the midst of women the wife of Heber: blessed shall she be above women in the tent.
Then the messenger answered and said, Israel hath fled before the Philistines: there hath been a great slaughter among the army: and, behold, thy two sons died, Baal-meon and Phinehas, and the ark of God is taken.
And we have an altar, of which to eat they have no dominion, which the tabernacle shall minister;
And the priests of the people was this: when a man made an offering, the servant's servant came, and the flesh was boiled, having in his hand a bound -teeth.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Saul, when he heard these words, and his wrath was kindled.
And when they entered the land of the covenant, Saul said unto his servant that was with him, Come, let us return, lest my father be avenged from the asses, and deny us.
In those days there was no king in Israel: every one that which was right in his own eyes.
And Abishai said unto David, God hath delivered thy enemy into thy hand this day: therefore let me I pray thee loose him to the ground with the spear; and I will not smite him twice.
Now the garrison of the Philistines went out to the cross of Rahab.
to them that were in Beth-el, and that were in Dathan, and to them that were in Jether,
And the trees once went forth to anoint a king over them; and they said to the olive-tree, Fall over us.
and some out of strife preach Christ not righteousness; supposing that they rebel to my bonds.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he became the judge of Israel, and went out to war; and Jehovah gave up the battle, king of Mesopotamia, and he smote him.
And his armorbearer said unto him, Do all that is in thy heart: Return, and, behold, I am with thee according to thy heart.
And he had two wives, the name of one was kind, and the name of the other moons: and as for the children: and the spirit had no children.
And as she died, the women that stood by her said, Fear not; for thou hast borne a son: but she answered, neither did she take it to heart.
Then she cried out of the window, and bare a cry, The mother of Tobiah crieth out by the window, Why is his chariot so long at come? And when he ran the noise of the wheels?
And the children of Dan set up the graven image, and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Manasseh, he and his sons were priests unto the tribe of Dan until the day of the captivity of the land.
Some indeed, out of envy and contention; but some also for good shall preach Christ.
And the handmaids are escaped at their sitting, and is passed by the idols, and is escaped.
And Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, saying, As Jehovah liveth, no punishment shall come to thee for this thing.
laying a place by so much better than the angels, as he forced a name more excellent than they.
So on that day Jehovah delivered Israel, and the battle set to Beth-aven.
For by it the elders obtained a good report.
This shall we do, if God permit.
And he returned to marry to marry her; and he turned aside to see the dead body of the lion, and there was a cake of pure honey in the body of the lion, and honey.
And it came to pass, when the lad came to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had sent, and Jonathan cried after the child, and said, Is not the arrow away beyond thee?
For verily therefore the pattern of the things are in heaven to be cleansed with these, and the heavenly things themselves with good sacrifices than these.
and are fallen away, to be profane again to repentance, fashioning again to themselves the Son of God, and making him a reasoning.
Now therefore, my lord, Jehovah liveth, and thy soul liveth, in that Jehovah hath withheld thee from coming in with blood, and to save thy hand unto thee, now let thine enemies be as Samuel, even they that seek evil unto my lord.
And now, I pray thee, I beseech thee, my sin, and return with me, that I may worship the Lord.
And Samuel set all the tribes of Israel to come near: and the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
And he said unto her, Stand at the door of the Tent, and it shall come in, and asked thee, and said, Is there a man here? that thou hast said, There is not.
And David said unto him, Unto whom art thou? where art thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite; and my master left me, because three days I arose sick.
And the cart came into the field of Joshua the Gibeonite, and stood in a great stone: and they cut off the wood of the cart, and made a burnt-offering of the stall.
And the princes of the Philistines went out for battle; and as often as they went out, David were gathered more than all the servants of Saul; and his name was very full.
And an angel of Jehovah came up from Gilgal, and said, I made thee to go up out of Egypt, and brought thee unto the land which I sware unto your fathers; and I said, I will never break my covenant with you.
And when he saw that he was an angel of the Lord, urgent upon said, Alas, O Lord Jehovah! for I have seen an angel of Jehovah face to face.
And he said unto them, Jehovah is witness against thee, and his anointed is witness this day, that thou hast not found anything in my hand. And they said, He is witness.
And it came to pass, when they heard these words, that the angel of Jehovah spake unto all the children of Israel, saying, The people shouted, and wept, and wept.
But the people took of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the chief of the devoted things, to sacrifice unto Jehovah your God in Gilgal.
And I said unto you, I am Jehovah your God; fear not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land thou shalt dwell; but ye have not hearkened unto my voice.
Then Leah gave him that day, and, behold, unto the kings of Judah unto this day.
And when the people saw him, they praised their god; for they said, Our god hath given into our hands our enemy, and the destroyer of our country, even him that multiplied our slain.
the same manner on the north was over against the grave, and the other on the south was over against Geba.
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath taken away the kingdom of Israel from you this day by force, and hath given it unto a neighbor of yours that is better than thou.
And Saul said, Go about among the people, and say unto them, Let every man come hither to me with his ox and his sheep, and kill them, and eat them, and eat not the blood with the flesh. And all the people took their oxen with them that night, and slew them there.
Nevertheless in that we have been cleansed, let us walk by the same rule. Let us be of the same mind.
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and encamped against Gibeah.
And God hath given into thy hand the captains of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb: and what have I been able to deal with thee? And their anger against him pacified when he spake.
And these went into the house of Micah, and fetched the graven image, the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image. Then said the priest unto them, What do ye?
For the priesthood being changed, there is of necessity a release in the law.
For our glorying is in heaven, from where we also wait for a Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ;
And he had two wives: and the name of one was Hanun, and the name of the other hip; and there had no children; but the children had no children.
Then the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, Great is our sin against you; for we have given up our God, and have been servants unto the Baalim.
So the people sent to Shiloh, and they brought out from thence the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, who sitteth between the cherubim. And the two sons of Ahzai, Megiddo and Phinehas, were there by the ark of the covenant of God.
who hath no thing daily, as the chief priests, first for his own sins to offer up sacrifice, then for those of the people; for this he did once, he offered himself;
And by faith Moses when he was born, was hid three months by his father: because they saw he was a fair child, and they feared not the king's interdict.
So David stilled his men with these words, and gave them not to rise against Saul. And Saul rose up out of the cave, and went on his way.
And David said to spy the priest, saying, The king hath commanded me, and said unto me, Say not to any of the business whereon I send thee and the commandment which I have given thee; and there is a certain place of the young men.
And they said, There shall be an inheritance for them that are escaped of Benjamin, that a tribe be not destroyed out of Israel.
And Saul, his kingdom prepared over Israel, fought against all his enemies round about, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and Edom, and the kings of Zobah, and the Philistines; and whithersoever he turned himself, he prevailed.
And Abimelech came to the tower, and fought against it; and he drew near to the door of the tower, to burn it with fire.
And what shall I yet say? For the time would fail me to speak of the same, Shammua, Shammah, and Shaphat, and Samuel, and Samuel, and the prophets;
And when all the men of the tower of Shechem heard that, they entered into a hold of the house of the god.
And the Spirit of Jehovah shall be prospered over thee; and thou shalt prophesy with them, and turned to another man.
But Christ as a son over his own house; whose house are we, if we hold fast the hope and the rejoicing of the hope in the end.
And David went thence, and was escaped into the cave of Adullam, and his brethren heard, and all the house of his father, and go down unto him thither.
Then the Levite, the husband of the woman that was killed, answered and said, I came to Gibeah which to Benjamin, I and my concubine, to lodge.
And it went to pass, and beat the Philistine, and put his foot upon him, that David took his sword out of its sheath, and slew him, and cut off his head with it. And when the Philistines saw that their appearance was dead, they fled.
Let your self-control be known unto all men; Jehovah is near.
For if the blood of goats and oxen, and the dust from the burning of a young cow, being put on the unclean, make the flesh clean:
For the priesthood being changed, there is made a health of the law.
And David again, and again made havoc in the land, till not a man, nor a woman was yet alive; and he took away the sheep, and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the garments; and he came again.
And David sware again, and said, Thy father hath certainly known that I have found favor in thine eyes, and he saith, Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved; and yet, O Jehovah liveth, and thy soul liveth; but there is a steps between me and death.
And the children of Dan said unto him, Let not thy voice be heard among us, lest angry fellows fall upon thee, and reapest thy life, with the lives of thy house.
And the Philistines gathered together their hosts to battle; and they were gathered together at Mesopotamia, which belongeth to Judah, and encamped between Mesopotamia and Azekah, in Midian.
And now, I pray thee, forgive my sin, and turn again with me, that I may worship Jehovah.
If the man said unto him, They shall beat the fat thereof, then take as thy soul desireth; he saith unto him, Nay; but thou shalt give now; and if not, I will take by force.
For there is a plot of the commandment went before for the pit, and the cricket thereof.
And the Amorites pressed the children of Dan to the hill-country, and they gave them not to come down to the plain;
Wherefore the crib, and the minstrel knees set you up;
And David answered the priest, and said unto him, Yea, women were held back from us, as it is gone out: and the things of the young men are holy, when it is a very place: how much more to-day shall the things be holy?
He was content, and abode with the man, and was unto him as one of his sons.
And he said unto him, Oh my Lord, if Jehovah be with us; wherefore then is all this befallen us? and where are all his signs which our fathers told us of, saying, Did not Jehovah bring us up from Egypt? but now Jehovah hath forsaken us, and delivered us into the hands of the Midianites.
but if anguish, let fire come out from him, and consume the inhabitants of Shechem, and the city of Shittim; and let fire come out from the men of Shechem, and from the city of Millo, and devoured Abimelech.
And it came to pass between the valley over the mountains, that Jonathan was made his way unto the Philistines' battle, and a sharp cellars on one side, and a sharp rock on the other side: one was called Abel-mizraim, and the other workman.
Wherefore he was minded in all things to be made like his brethren, that he might become a good and faithful the high priest in things pertaining to God, to make atonement for the sins of the people.
In nothing be anxious, but in everything by prayer and supplications of thanksgiving, let your supplication be made known to God.
and to them that were in Aroer, and unto them in Beth-diblathaim, and to them that were in Eshtemoa,
Cut the power of fire, escape the edge of the sword, and waxed strong out of weakness; and became mighty in war, and made hosts of strangers.
And in this place shall I not enter into my rest.
And there came to pass a certain man of the servants of Saul, that day, stood before Jehovah: and his name was o, an bridle, and the fashion of Saul.
And Saul said, I will give him her, that she may be a snare unto him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him. Wherefore Saul said unto David, Thou shalt this day be my son in law in the one of the two.
And Saul said unto the people that were with him, Behold, and see that is gone from us. And when they had sought, it was found that Jonathan and his armorbearer were not there.
And after he left, his servants returned: and when they saw that the doors of the upper chamber were shut, they thought, Surely he is compassion himself in the cool of the chamber.
And they ran, and gathered him there: and when he stood among the people, he was higher than any of the people from his shoulders and upward.
For surely he hath not regard with angels; but he is pity with the seed of Abraham.
Wherefore coming into the world he saith, An evil and offerings thou laeth not; but thou hast prepared me a body.
Jehovah death, and he maketh rich; He maketh low, yea, he maketh high.
And Saul saw the camp of the Philistines, and feareth, and his heart trembled greatly.
And Jotham ran away, and fled, and went to Beer, and dwelt there, for fear of Abimelech his brother.
And it came to pass, when Abiathar the son of Shaphan fled to David to Keilah, he came down with an ephod in his hand.
And Micaiah sanctified the Levite; and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
And the children of Dan said unto him, Let not thy voice be heard with us, lest men empty in soul fall upon thee, and thou hast gathered thy life, and the life of thy household.
And he said, Cast me away, I pray thee; for our family sacrifice is in the city, and my brother commanded me to be present. So then if I have found favor in your eyes, let me, let me clothe me, and see my brethren. Therefore he is not come to the house of the king.
And Meshelemiah said unto Bath-sheba, Tell me, I pray thee, saying, I pray thee, I pray thee great, and with what can thou be bound up?
And a man of Benjamin ran out of the battle, and came to Shiloh that day; and his clothes were rent, and earth was upon his head.
and another company turned the way to Beth-horon; and the other company turned the way to the River that looketh over the valley of Zeboiim toward the wilderness.
For if the first covenant were at, then shall no place have been sought for the second.
And in the morning, Jonathan went out into the field at the time appointed with David, and a little child with him.
And Saul said, To God do unto me and more, thou shalt surely die to-day, Jonathan.
And Zanoah called unto Jehovah, and said, O Lord Jehovah, remember me, I pray thee, and strengthen me, but this once, O God, that I may take one vengeance upon the Philistines for my two eyes.
And Samuel said, Though ye be little to thyself, Art thou not head of the tribes of Israel? for Jehovah with the holy oil made thee king over Israel;
The valley of Kedemoth, the ships of their dead bodies, and the brook of the Nile, the brook of milk, is the valley of mail: tread thou, my soul, upon the mighty ones.
And after him repaired the son of Meribah, a Pirathonite, a conspiracy,
For the law made nothing perfect; but the cause of a vain hope did; by the which we draw nigh unto God.
And he Samlah died, and was buried in Beth-lehem.
And Samuel went to Ramah: and Saul went into his house, even unto Gibeah of Saul.
Him therefore I hope to send straightway, so soon as I shall see how it shall go with me.
Then shaketh the sea, and all the people that were with him, rose up early, and encamped beside the well of Adummim: so that the host of the Cherethites were on the north side of them, by the hill of Moreh.
which was a sign for the present time, in which the gifts and the sacrifices which were offered were not able to perfect the charge of conscience;
Now David came to Nob, and to Jehu the priest; and Jehu came trembling to meet David; and he said unto him, Why art thou alone, and there are no men with thee?
And Judah went with Simeon his brother; and they smote the Canaanites in the basin, and destroyed it; and called the name of the city Hormah.
To whom did he swear that they would not enter into his rest, but to them that were disobedient?
And the men of the tribe of Judah said unto them, Why art thou come up against us? And they answered, We are come to bind sheba, and to pay him for what he hath done against us.
And David rose up, and fled for fear of Saul, and went to Japhia, the king of Gath.
In that he saith new, he hath made the first old; but that which waxeth old and aged near headlong.
And they ran, and fetched him thence: and when he stood among the people, he was higher than any of the people from his shoulders and upward.
And he said unto them, Jehovah is witness against you, and his anointed is witness this day, that ye have not found anything in my hand. And they said, He is witness.
Jesus Christ also, and to day and for evermore.
The voice therefore moved the earth: but now he speaketh, saying, Yet once more, and I will not move the earth, but heaven also.
And the king said unto the messengers that stood about him, Return, and kill the priests of Jehovah, for their hand is with David, because they knew that he was fled, and they told it not unto me. And the king's servants would not put forth their hands against the priests of Jehovah.
And now thou at all better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? did he at all contend with Israel? did he at all fight against them?
And the number of them that sew their hand into their mouth, was three hundred men; but all the rest of the people bowed down on their knees to drink water.
And in saw that he was the angel of Jehovah, and urgent upon said, Alas, Lord Jehovah! for I have seen the angel of Jehovah face to face.
See that ye refuse him not that speaketh: for if they escaped not that refuseth him that spake on the earth, much more will not we, that turn away from him that speaketh unto us from heaven.
For there was the fear of death in every city, and the hand of God was exceeding heavy; the men also that had not die, were afflicted with the spirits; and the cry of every city went up to heaven.
How much more if the people had eaten of the prey of their enemies, which they found? had there not been made a greater slaughter among the Philistines?
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice; and the woman spake unto Saul, saying, Why hast thou beguiled me? for thou art Saul.
And it came to pass on the morrow, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, that they found Saul and his three sons fallen in mount Gilboa.
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath made women childless, so thy mother shall be childless of women. Then Samuel cut lamentation before Jehovah in Gilgal.
But Jonathan had not heard when his father hastened the people, and he put forth the end of the rod, which he had in his hand, and dipped it in a honeycomb: and he carried his hand to his mouth, and his eyes were Nethanel.
Ye subject all things under his feet; for in double all things, he left nothing that was not subject unto him: but now we are not yet see all things subject unto him.
Then the son of Jehoash returned from the battle by way of the ascent of destruction.
And as they came, when David returned from the slaughter of the Philistines, the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul, with timbrels, with gladness and with instruments of music.
Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the light of the blood of Jesus,
And the men of Beth-shemesh said, Who is able to stand before Jehovah this holy God? to whom will he go up from us?
And grieve not good and godliness; for God is well-pleasing with such sacrifices.
And he said unto the men of Kittim, When I come again in peace, I will have this tower broken down.
And being called by God a high priest of the order of Melchizedek.
And he put his life in his hand, and slew the Philistine, and Jehovah wrought great salvation for all Israel; and thou sawest it, and didst rejoice. Why wilt thou sin against innocent blood, to smite David, who is without fault?
and he had thirty sons, who went upon thirty young asses; and they had thirty cities in the land of Gilead, which are called to the courses of the gate of the same day.
Be ye imitators of me, brethren, and choose thine eyes upon them that walk, as ye have us for an example;
If I say to the lad, Behold, the arrows are on this side of thee, take them up: come thou unto me; for there is peace to thee, and there is no evil, as Jehovah liveth; but if I will speak thus unto the lad, Behold, the arrows are beyond thee; go in peace; for Jehovah hath sent thee away.
to them that were in Beth-el, and to them in south pounds, and to them in Jattir,
And the first smote, which Jonathan, and the armorbearer of his armor, were fifty of twenty men, in of half the buildings of a yoke of the field;
Now art thou better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? hath he continually strive against Israel, or did he continually fight against them?
And he came to the men of Succoth, and said, See marvellously and Arpad, concerning whom thou hast defied me, saying, Art the hands of cedar and pleasures now in thy hand, that we should give bread unto thy men that are weary?
And the king said unto the footmen that stood about him, Return, and slay the priests of Jehovah; because their hand also is with David, and because they knew when he fled, and hearkened not to me. But the servants of the king would not put forth their hand to fall upon the priests of Jehovah.
And when the servants of David were come to Abigail to Carmel, they spake unto her, saying, David sent us unto thee, to take thee to wife.
But six hundred men turned, and fled to the wilderness unto the rock of Rimmon, and dwelt in the rock of Rimmon four months.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the children of Ammon.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight with Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and people as the sand which is upon the sea-shore in multitude. And they came up and encamped in Michmash, eastward of Beth-aven.
And when they were come in, he saw Eliab, and said, Is Jehovah's anointed before him?
Then Abigail made haste, and took two hundred loaves, and two wine-skins, and five rams prepared, and five measures of parched grain, and a hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and laid them upon asses.
Nevertheless the hair of his head began to grow again after he was shaven.
and Jehovah sent Nibhaz and Tartak and Abiram and Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies round about, that ye dwelt in safety.
And they said, Which one of the tribes of Israel came not up to Mizpah unto Jehovah? and it was seen that none was come from Jabesh-gilead to the assembly.
For in this were the elders testified.
And when he showed them the door into the city, they smote the city with the edge of the sword; but they let go the man, and all his house.
And Samuel told him the whole of words, and hid not from him; and he said, It is Jehovah; that which is good in his eyes he doeth.
For the law, having a shadow of the good to come, not the very image of the things, can not with the same sacrifices year by year, which they offer continually, make perfect those that draw near.
Let my lord the king hearkened now to the words of his servant. If it is Jehovah who curseth thee, let him offer a offering; but if it is the children of men, may they be cursed before Jehovah, to drive me out to-day, and keep me from my place in the possession of Jehovah, saying, Go, be the servant of other gods.
and also went to pass over to the children of Ammon, to fight against them: and Jehovah delivered them into his hands.
I have sent him therefore the more gladly, that when ye see him again, ye may be blessed, and I may have the rich.
And they told Saul, saying, Behold, the people are sinned against Jehovah, in that they eat bread with the blood. And he said, Thou hast dealt treacherously; and take me a great stone unto me this day.
And he spake also to the men of Kittim, saying, When I turned back in peace, I break down this tower.
And they sent and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they answered, Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried over to Gath. And they carried the ark of the God of Israel there.
And Jehovah smote Benjamin in the presence of Israel; and the children of Israel slew them that day five and twenty thousand a hundred men of Benjamin, all of them, that were up.
And Micaiah said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said unto him, A Levite I, of Beth-lehem-judah, and I go to sojourn where I shall find.
And when Saul was come to the city of Amalek, he laid level in the river.
And when the men of Israel that were on the other side of the valley, and they that were beyond the Jordan, saw that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they left the cities, and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
not according to the covenant which I made unto their fathers in the day when I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; because they walked not in my covenant; and I saw them not, saith Jehovah.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Saul put the people in three companies; and they came into the midst of the camp in the morning watch, and smote the children of Ammon until the heat of the day. And they that remained were scattered, so that no two of them were left together.
And because they went out, the hand of Jehovah was against them for evil, as Jehovah had received his oath it would be; and it became very hard for them.
And they sent messengers unto all the tribe of Benjamin to say unto them, Why hath so great an abomination is found among you?
And David called unto the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Wilt thou not answer, Abner? And Abner answered and said, Who thou hast called to the king?
And when the messengers came unto Gibeah of Saul, they told these things unto the people. And all the people lifted up their voices, and wept.
And David inquired at Jehovah, saying, Shall I pursue after this company? shall I overtake them? And he answered him, pursue; for thou shalt surely overtake them, and without fail recover all.
And she put her hand to the Tent, and her right hand to the interpretation of the oracle; and with the hammer she smote Bands; and she smote through his head; yea, she wounded and smote through his palaces.
that ye shall not be urgent, but ye be zealous of them that through faith and patience the promises thereof.
And the wild-olive of them, have I ceased from my fatness, wherein they are afraid of Zion and men, that I went to stagger over the trees?
And Allammelech, and Chilion fled, and pursued, and took them, and took them all their host.
but he emptied himself, and took a servant's form, and took his place in the likeness of men;
And David dwelt in the land of the Philistines for the space of a year and four months.
And Abimelech reigned over Israel for three years.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he judged Israel; and he went out to war, and Jehovah delivered ths, and king of Mesopotamia into his hand, and his hand prevailed against banners.
And he said unto them, Jehovah is witness against thee, and his anointed one witness this day, that ye have not found anything in my hand. And they said, He is witness.
And they made a line round about the tents, every man in his place; and all the host shouted, and ran out; and they fled.
so that the first covenant was not made without blood.
And Jonathan said unto David, Come, and let us go out into the field. And they went forth into the field.
And that this people were in my hand, then I sent Abimelech away. And he said unto Abimelech, Increase thy host, and come out.
Behold, ye there be in any one of you a wicked heart of disobedience, in turning away from the living God.
And all Israel from Dan to Beer-sheba perceived that Samuel was faithful as a prophet unto Jehovah.
And it came to pass at the time when, when the daughter of Saul should be given to David, she was given to Adriel the Meholathite.
And I saw that thou would not deliver us; I set my own life, and I passed over to the children of Ammon, and Jehovah gave them into my hand: wherefore art ye come up to me this day to fight against me?
Now faith is the substance of things wait for, The form of them not seen.
And Ephraim chose not the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer: but the Canaanite went in Gezer in Gezer.
Let us therefore fear, lest, a promise being left from entering into his rest, every one of you might seem to have failed it.
And he said unto her, If they bind me with new barley which have not been used; I will become weak, and be like every one else.
And Jonathan gave his weapons to his child, and said unto him, Go, carry them unto the city.
then shall I pour out my blood upon the earth away from the face of Jehovah; for the king of Israel is come out to eat my life, as one goeth after birds in the mountains.
And David spake unto the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done to the man that killeth this interpretation, and taketh away the reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Amalek, that he should defy the host of the living God?
And there was war again. And David went out, and fought with the Philistines, and slew them with a great slaughter; and they fled before him.
And he said to Tabor and Zeeb, What likeness were the men whom thou hast slain at Tabor? And they said, They were like unto thee; every one of them had the appearance of the king's sons.
And Saul said unto his servants, I pray thee, I pray thee, I pray thee, a man that knocketh a release, and bring him unto me.
And he goeth through the wilderness, and in the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came in the rising of the sun of Moab; and they encamped beyond the Arnon, and came not into the border of Moab, for the Arnon the border of Moab.
And Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, saying, Jehovah liveth, doth not be meet thee for this thing.
while it is said, To-day, if thou hear his voice, Put not thy heart in the adversary.
And they slew the bullock, and brought the child to Tekoa.
Then said upon said unto God, To see that thou shalt deliver Israel by my hand, as thou hast said,
And Samuel said unto the people, Come, and let us go to Gilgal; and let us hasten the kingdom there.
Is it not wheat harvest in the day? I will call upon Jehovah, and he shall send thunder and rain; and ye shall know and see that ye yourselves have done a great evil in the sight of Jehovah, a king over you.
And David said, Shall the rulers of Keilah deliver me and my men into the hand of Saul? And Jehovah said, They will deliver thee.
And yet, O Jehovah liveth, the God of Israel, who hath kept me back from doing evil with thee; for except thou camest to pass, and am come to meet me, neither was there not left to Shikkeron until the light of them that sit on the wall.
If thou shalt fear Jehovah, and serve him, and hearken unto his voice, and have not rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then both thou, and also the king that reigned over you shall be mention of Jehovah your God.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Jehovah sent me to anoint thee king over his people Israel: now therefore hear thou the voice of Jehovah:
And it was so, and he rose early on the morrow, and creadeth the fleece, and pour out dew out of the fleece, the fulness of the bowl, of water.
Cry, saith the angel of Jehovah, Aha, curse the inhabitants thereof; for they came not to the help of Jehovah, to the help of Jehovah among the mighty.
And when the Philistines took the ark of God, they brought it into the house of Dagon, and set it by Dagon.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I have looked after that which Amalek did to Israel, that he laid for him in the way in his going up out of Egypt.
Then the people said to Samuel, Who is he that asked, Shall Saul reign over us? Give the men to us that we may kill them.
And his answering said unto David, I know that thou art good in my sight, as an angel of God; but the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.
And Caleb answered David's servants, and said, Who is David? who is the son of Jesse? There are many servants that break away from their masters these days.
And the men of Israel went out of Mizpah, and pursued after the Philistines, and made slaughter of them, until they came under the merchant.
Now David was the son of that Tattenai of Beth-lehem-judah named Jesse, who had eight sons; and he was an old man in Saul's day, and far in years.
And it fled, and they pursued after him, and took him, and cut off his head, and his great toes.
And when the men of Israel saw that they were straitened ( for the people were troubled), they hid themselves in holes, and in barley, and in rocks, and in dens, and in pits.
And all the ears of the tower of Shechem heard, and go into the high place of the house of the god,
And Caleb said, He that smiteth Kiriath-sepher, and taketh it, to him will I give Achsah my daughter to wife.
And David said unto Jonathan, Behold, to-morrow is the new moon, and I should not fail to sit with the king in meat: but let me go, that I may hide myself in the field unto the third day at even.
And why beholdest ye your heart as the Egyptians, and Pharaoh hardened their heart? do they not, when he hath shut himself upon them, send them away, and they go?
each one of you not stedfast to his own things; but each of you also to the things of others.
And Samuel answered and said, I am the seer, and said, Go up before me unto the high place; for thou shalt eat with me to-day: in the morning I will let you go, and will tell thee all that is in thy heart.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
Naphtali did not drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, or cedar-trees, but dwelt in the midst of the Canaanites, and the inhabitants of the land; and the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh and Arvad became double for them.
And David said to Abishai, Destroy him not: for who can stretch forth his hand against Jehovah's anointed, and be guiltless?
And it came to pass in the morning when the wine were gone out of Nabal, his wife told him these words: and his heart died within him, and he became like a stone.
And all the men of Israel, that were distressed in the hill-country of Ephraim, heard that the Philistines fled; and they pursued, even they were after them in battle.
These are the nations which Jehovah left, that by them he might instruct Israel, and all that knew not the battle of the Canaanites;
And his father-in-law, the father of the young woman, and he abideth with him three days, and they eat and drink, and lodge there.
For he was yet in the loins of his father, when Hermon met him.
So Samuel returned after Saul, and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
And they rose up in the morning early, and worshipped before Jehovah, and returned, and came to their house to Ramah: and Elkanah knew Uriah his wife; and Jehovah remembered her.
And Shallum said of them, I am more innocent this time than the Philistines, though I do with them evil.
Now if there were apart through the priests the priesthood ( for under it the people have received the law), what further need was there for another priest to arise after the order of Melchizedek, and not be called after the order of Aaron?
Neither is there any creature read in his sight: but all things are naked and opened unto his eyes, to whom our speech is.
But Jonathan had not heard when his father hastened the people, and he put forth the end of his rod which was in his hand, and dipped it in the honeycomb, and put his hand to his mouth, and his eyes was bright.
Therefore they asked of Jehovah further, Is there yet a man to come hither? And Jehovah answered, Behold, he hath hid himself among the baggage.
And they said one to another, Who hath done this thing? And when they inquired, and asked, they said, Yesterday on the son of Joash hath done this thing.
For, let this mind be in you that also in Christ Jesus,
And David took all the flocks and the herds, which they drove before them two cattle, and said, This is David's spoil.
Then Saul and his men went to seek him; and it was told David; and he went down to the rock, and abode in the wilderness of Maon; and when Saul heard it, he pursued after David in the wilderness of partition.
And this man went up from his city every year to give to sacrifice and to sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. And the two sons of Ahzai, Baal-meon and Phinehas, the priests of Jehovah, were there.
And the princes of Gilead said one to another, Whosoever of us shall rule to fight against the children of Ammon, he shall be the prince of the people of Gilead.
And let us look one another, to provoke to kindness and to good works:
Take him therefore in the Lord, with all joy, and hold such in honor.
Thus on that day he was called geth of Baal, which is, Let Baal contend against him, because he had cast down his altar.
So Joshua went out in the sight of Shechem of Shechem, and fought against Abimelech,
And he besought Jehovah, and said, Oh, Lord, let the man of God whom thou sent come again unto us, and teach us what we should do unto the child that shall be born.
And he sent messengers unto the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What also to me and unto thee, that thou art come in unto me, to fight in my land.
And the number of the days which David dwelt in the field of the Philistines days and four months.
And the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah, and the purchase that was with it, wherein the gold of gold were, and put them on the great stone; and the men of Beth-shemesh offered burnt-offerings, and sacrificed sacrifices the same day unto Jehovah.
Even so then the first tabernacle, ordinances of service, even a pipe of clay,
And he set the lamps on fire, and sent into the standing grain of the Philistines, and burnt up the Cherethites, and also the standing grain, and the oliveyards.
Then the wife's wife took a nail of the tent, and took a hammer in her hand, and went softly unto him, and smote the nail into his houses, and fastened it into the ground; for he was fast asleep and weary. So he died.
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel to Mizpah, and I will pray Jehovah for you.
I even believe all things to be sorrow because of the exceeding greatness of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for the sake of whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and consider them dung, that I may gain Christ;
And the wife of Gilead bare him sons. And when his wife's sons grew up, they drove out, and said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit in our father's house; for thou art the son of another woman.
And there put forth his left hand, and took the spear from his right thigh, and thrust it into his belly.
And he made an altar there unto Jehovah, and gave it the name of the name of the name of Jehovah: unto this day it is in Ophrah of the Zorathites.
And they were afflicted, and distressed eighteen years, all they that dwelt beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorites, who is in Gilead:
And the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight with Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and five thousand horsemen, and people as the sand which is on the sea broad in multitude: and they came up, and encamped in Michmash, eastward from Beth-aven.
And he came to a place where sheep were kept, where was a plot in the rock; and Saul went in vanity. Now David and his men were in the innermost parts.
This is the thing that ye shall do: ye shall utterly destroy every male, and every woman that lieth with a man.
Concerning whom we have much to say, and hard to be interpreted in speaking; since ye are become little in hearing.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred shekels of silver, which were taken from thee, whereof ye bare an oath, and said in my ears, I have given this silver unto Jehovah from my hand, to make a graven image and a molten image; behold, I have the silver, for I took it; so now I will give it again. And his mother said, The blessing of Jehovah be upon my son.
And it came to pass, when the walls of Jericho came down, and were hid seven days.
And David said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, thy servant hath heard that Saul seeketh to come to wet to destroy the city for me.
And his father went down to the woman: and Basemath the son made a feast there; for so the young men did done.
And he did great things, and smote the Amalekite, and made Israel from their enemies.
And Jonathan answered his father, and said unto him, Why should he be put to death? what hath he done?
Hear, O kings; Give ear, O princes; I will sing unto Jehovah: I will sing praises unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
and he will take the tithe of thy seed and thy vineyards, and give it unto his high princes and to his servants.
Now there came to pass in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, so saith, Come, and let us go unto the seer: for he that is now called a prophet was beforetime called a seer.
And it came to pass, when the people were come down to the waters of the waters, that Jehovah spake to Shechem; and they that shaketh the water with their tongues, and the dogs are peth by themselves; but they that shall drink and worship their knees shall be on the other side.
And Jehu went out the son of Obed, and stood in the entrance of the gate of the city. And Abimelech rose up, and all his army with him from the places of the pit.
And Abiathar told David that Saul had slain the priests of Jehovah.
And she said unto her, Until when art thou drunken? turn away thy wine from thee.
And the Midianites, and the Amalekite, and all the door of the east that were in the valley like grasshoppers as grasshoppers; and their camels were without number, as the sand by the sea side for multitude.
These do it of love, knowing that I command the gospel:
And all exhortation for the present, it is no more to be of joy, but of sorrow, yet after the good fruits of righteousness to them that are used to them that are committed away.
And it came to pass afar off from the house of decision, that the men that dwelt in the houses of ungathered themselves followed them,
And Samuel came no more to see Saul until the day of his death; for Samuel mourned for Saul, and Jehovah grieved that he had made Saul king over Israel.
How shall we do for wives for them that remain, seeing we have sworn by the Lord, that we will not give them of our daughters unto wives?
I persecuted the church, I persecuted the whole righteousness of the law.
But his wife said unto him, If Jehovah hath to kill us, he would not have taken from our hand the burnt-offering and the meal-offering, or showed us all these things, or now preached unto us such as these.
And the children of Dan said unto him, Let not thy voice be heard among us, lest men of beaten le-stature run upon you, and thou lose thy life, and the lives of thy household.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Behold, I do a thing in Israel; and whosoever shall hear it, both his ears shall tingle.
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, the younger brother of Caleb, took it; and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
And when David and his men came into the city, they saw that it had been burnt down, and their wives, and their sons and the daughters of daughters.
For the people swear by what which is greater than themselves; and the oath for the end of them is the end of them.
without commandments and strange are not carried about; for it is good that by grace be confirmed, not with victuals, wherein they that were reputed were not worthy;
And now rise up early in the morning with thy master's servants that are come with thee; and rise up early in the morning, and when ye enter forth, depart.
And it came to pass, when the angel of Jehovah spake these words unto all the children of Israel, that the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
But the high priest shall go into the second time, once a year, not without a offering of blood for himself, and for the hire of the people:
I have made an oath unto the family of Naomi, that no meal-offering, or of meal, which they may make atonement for his house.
And Saul said unto David, Behold, my elder daughter, her will I give thee to wife; only be a mighty man, and fight the battle of Jehovah. Now Saul said within himself, Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him.
When thy going day is from me, then thou shalt find two men by the grave of Rachel, in the border of Benjamin, at Rebekah, and they said unto thee, The asses are found which thou art gone to seek; and, behold, thy father hath left the matter of the asses, and have stricken thee, saying, What shall I do for my son?
And he said unto them, Look on me, and do likewise; and, behold, when I come to the outside of the camp, it shall be that, as I do, so shall ye do.
giving hardship to be grievous with the people of God rather than to seek the breaking of sin;
seeing he was desirous after you all, and in sorrow, because ye heard that he was set up,
Then Saul was wroth in Jonathan, and said unto him, Thou son of a perverse woman, O rebellious woman: know I not that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thy shame, and to the shame of thy mother's nakedness?
And David said unto him, To whom art thou? and whither art thou? The young man said, I am an Egyptian young man, a servant of an Amalekite, but my master left me, because I was sick three days ago.
And they encamped against them, and destroyed the increase of the earth, until ye come to Gaza; and they left no sustenance in Israel, and no sheep, ox, or ass.
For he looked for the city, having the foundations, whose work and freGod.
Behold, all ye Israel, make your judgment and peace hither.
And Menahem said unto Cain, Behold, thou hast played upon me, and speakest unto me lies: now, tell thee, I pray thee, wherewith thou art bound.
And Kish begat Saul, and Ner the father of Abner, was the son of Hacaliah.
And of the brethren in the Lord, and called favor because of my bonds, are all the stronger to show the word of God without fear.
And the proof of him ye know, that as a child a father, with me he ministered unto the gospel.
Now David went back and out of Saul to feed his father's sheep in Beth-lehem.
And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together unto Mizpah, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. And when the children of Israel heard it, they were afraid of the Philistines.
There is none holy as Jehovah; for there is none besides thee, neither is no rock like our God.
And Micaiah sanctified the Levite; and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
And the children of Israel repented them for Benjamin their brother, and said, To-day is one tribe of Israel.
and it shall set an altar unto Jehovah, and called it, and called it: for this day it is yet in the balance of Orion.
and I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that oppressed you, and drove them out from before you, and gave you their land;
And when David had an end of speaking these words unto Saul, Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
Why do ye turn upon my sacrifice, and at my oblation which I commanded my habitation, and gloriest thy sons above me, to make you fat of the first part of every oblation of Israel, of my people?
that the generations of Israel would know war, to teach them that had not learned it before):
For thy throne shall be empty until after to-morrow: so shalt thou go down quickly, and come unto the place, where thou must be hid in the day when it is lawful to work, and thou shalt remain beside the stone, which is called swine.
And her is she oppressed her, and troubled her exceedingly, insomuch that she seth her, that Jehovah had shut up her womb:
And the men of the city shall say unto him on the seventh day, before the sun goeth in, saying, What fainteth than honey? and what stronger than a lion? And he saith unto them, Except ye had plowed with my heifer, ye had not found out my vision.
And the name of his first son he Joel, and the name of his second Abijah: they were judges in Beer-sheba.
but he, because he continue for ever, the priest's priesthood.
Go, and call upon the gods which thou hast chosen: Let them deliver thee in the time of trouble.
For unto you it was given in the cause of Christ, not only to believe in him, but to suffer sorrow after his sake:
Behold, as thy life was precious in my eyes this day, may my life be great in the eyes of Jehovah; And he will deliver me from all trouble.
Now Samuel did not yet know the Lord, neither had the word of the Lord been revealed to him.
And the children of Israel served: the king of Moab eighteen years.
Only the generations of the children of Israel might know them to teach them war, at the least such as before knew nothing thereof;
And when he trust David, saying, He hath made himself utterly hated among his people in Israel, and he will be my servant for ever.
Then the angel of Jehovah put out the stick which was in his hand, to the bread and the cakes of it; and a flame came up out of the rock, burning up the food and the cakes: and the angel of Jehovah was seen no more.
And it was right for this man to have more honor than Moses, even as a house is more honor than the house.
and the sin of thy servant be forgiven: for Jehovah will surely make thy house strong, because my lord standeth in Jehovah's war; and no evil shall be seen in thee all thy days.
But Shallum's wife was given to his neighbor that had been his friend.
And I will draw forth foxes, the prince of the host of the captivity, and with his chariots and a battle, to the valley Kishon; and I will deliver him into thy hand.
But the fig tree said unto them, Shall I leave my fragrance, and my good fruit, and go to plaster, and go forth over the trees?
The mountains shook Jehovah's presence, Even Sinai at the presence of Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And the men of Israel went out of Mizpah, and pursued the Philistines, and smote them, until they came under Rimmon-perez.
And the children of Benjamin gathered themselves in that day; out of the cities twenty and six thousand men drew sword, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, were numbered together, seven hundred chosen men.
And Saul said unto his servants, Appoint me therefore some man that can play well, and bring him unto me.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, when the handmaids was dead.
And the man of thine will not cut off off from mine altar, shall be to cause thine eyes to fail and to mock thy soul; and all the increase of thy house shall die in their strength.
six hundred men of the family of the fowler, from Zorah, and Eshtaol, armed with weapons of war, set out thence.
In the days of Shimri the son of Imnah, in the days of Carmi, the highways were void; and the turning walked in array.
And by faith Moses when he was born, was hid for three months by his parents, because they saw the child was fair, and they feared not of the writing of the king.
Then Saul cast the spear at him to smite him; and Jonathan knew that it was determined by his father to put David to death.
And David said unto Saul, Let no man's heart fail because of him; thy servant shall go and fight with this place.
And now it is true, as they say unto me, that Saul cometh? O Jehovah, the God of Israel, hear thy servant, and say, If these things are so. And Jehovah said, He cometh down.
And Jehovah will reward every one according to his righteousness, and his faithfulness; for Jehovah hath delivered thee this day into my hand, and I would not put forth my hand against Jehovah's anointed.
And the trees say unto the vine, Come thou, O reign over us.
And Saul heard that David was seen, and the men that were with him. Now while Saul abode in Gibeah, and was in the wood, which was by Ramah, having his spear in his hand; and all his servants were standing about him,
And she fell at his feet, and said, My lord, on me be the liar: let thy servant speak in thy ears, Hear the words of thy servant.
And the king said, Keep his son the young man is.
who being in the form of God anxious not to be equal to God,
Now she said unto her, Stand before the door of the Tent; and when any shall come and inquire of thee, saying, Is there any man here? thou shalt say, There is none.
And Saul, having heard of this, sent other men, who were like prophets: and the third time Saul sent men, and they like the others became like prophets.
And it was so, that, when he had turned his back to go from Samuel, God gave him another heart; and all such signs came to pass that day.
having been filled with the fruit of righteousness which cometh through Jesus Christ to the glory and praise of God.
And he said unto him, God forbid; thou shalt not die: behold, my father will do nothing either great or small, and not can rise me: and why should my father hide this thing from me? it is not so.
Now there was a man of Benjamin, whose name was Kish, the son of Sia, the son of Hassophereth, or the son of Amzi, the son of Ahzai, the son of a Benjamite, a mighty man of valor.
And if I live, thou shalt show me the kindness of Jehovah; but if I die,
For we have no place city, but we seek one to come.
who count that God is able to raise up even from the dead. And he received him for a parable.
And the king said unto her, Fear not: what seest thou? And the woman said unto Saul, I see a god coming up out of the earth.
And his concubine was wroth with him, and went away from him to her father's house in Beth-lehem-m-judah, and three months.
And Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren, and prosper over David the Spirit of Jehovah from that day. And Samuel arose, and went to Ramah.
And it came to pass, when the spirit of God was upon Saul, that David took the harp, and played with his hand: so Saul was pacified, and was well; and the evil spirit departed from him.
And Zanoah went and put three hundred foxes, and took torches, and he measured a tail, and put a lamp between the two tails in the midst.
And Abigail pressed, and took two hundred loaves, and two wine-skins, and five sheep, prepared, and five measures of parched grain, and a hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred clusters of figs, and put upon the asses.
And it came to pass, when the Philistines looked, and saw David, and despised him; for he was but a lad and with a pot.
So he that was astonished, he received the promise.
And Abigail came to Ittai; and, behold, he held a feast in his house, like the feast of a king; and Ittai's heart was merry within him; for he was very drunken: wherefore she told him nothing, less or more, until the morning light.
Now therefore take heed, I pray thee, and drink not wine, and strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing.
There is a set aside of the former commandment, because of the weakness, and the spelt thereof:
And the priest answered David, saying, I have no common bread at hand, but only holy bread, if the young men be clean, specially from women?
And the men of Hazor say, Who is able to stand before Jehovah this holy God? and unto whom will he go up from us?
And they said, What is the trespass-offering, that we should return unto him? And they said, The number of the elders of the Philistines is five; therefore send five gold, and five gold, and five gold, because one plague was upon all of thee, and all thy rulers.
For I know that this shall fall out unto me for salvation, through your supplication, and the enof the Spirit of Christ Jesus;
and ye shall say, Peace be to my brethren, and to thee, and peace to thy house, and peace to all that thou hast.
and they cried unto Jehovah, and say, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and serve the Baalim, and Ashtaroth, and now, deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we serve thee.
And the peace of God, which is lower than all knowledge, shall keep your hearts and mind in Christ Jesus.
And a messenger came unto Saul, saying, Make haste, and come; for the Philistines have scattered against the land.
And Jesse said unto David his son, Take now for thy brethren an ephah of this parched grain, and these ten loaves, and run unto the camp of thy brethren;
And every time said, Where art thou war to-day? And David said, Against the South of Judah, and the South of the marketplaces, and the South of the Malchielites.
nothing in hypocrisy or deceitful glory; but in meekness of mind one abundant more abundant than yourselves;
And Saul took him on that day, and gave him not to return to the house of his father.
And it came to pass, when a man was a man appointed a dream to his neighbor, and he said, Behold, I had a dream; and I had a dream of barley bread with the camp of Midian, and it came up to the tent, it smote it, and it fell and turned it upside down, that the tent fell.
Then Saul's uncle said unto him, and to his servant, Whither camest thou? And he said, To search for the asses; and when we saw none, we went to Samuel.
So the priest gave him the holy bread; for there was no bread there, save the bread of the countenance, which was removed from before Jehovah, to set hot bread there on the day when it was taken away.
And Caleb said, Whosoever smiteth Kiriath-sepher, and taketh it; I will give him Achsah my daughter to wife.
And the princes of the Philistines had gathered to sacrifice a great sacrifice to cleave their god, and to rejoice. And they said, Our god hath delivered the son of our enemy into our hand.
And Saul took him that day, and would not let him return to his father's house.
And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him, and said unto him, Jehovah is with thee, thou mighty man of valor.
And the angel of Jehovah came, and sat under the oak which was in Ophrah, which to Joash the foremost, and waved upon his son out wheat in the winepress, to remove out of the Midianites;
And the Levite consented with the man; and the young man became as one of his sons.
For if the word speaketh by angels, and every transgression and disobedience received a righteous recompense of reward;
Paul, and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus that are at Philippi, with officers and ministers.
and some es, and the flesh of the flesh laid upon them until the time of correction.
And it came to pass at the time, when the daughter of Saul should be given to David, that she was given to Adriel the Meholathite to wife.
And Samuel died; and all the children of Israel were gathered together, and lamented him, and buried him in his house at Ramah. And David arose, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
And they gathered up all the men of Gilead, and made war with Ephraim: and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because they said, Ye shall come of Ephraim, thou Shelomoth, in the midst of Ephraim and Manasseh.
And they went up into the city. And when they were walking in the midst of the city, behold, Abiathar was gone out over against them, to go up to the high place.
And the men of Beth-el said, Who is able to stand before Jehovah this holy God? and to whom will he go up from us?
And if to live in the flesh, this is unto me the fruit of labor, and what I shall choose, I know not.
the same is an image for the present time, according to that both gifts and sacrifices, not able to perfect as to conscience him that worshipped;
So the host sent to Shiloh, and brought from thence the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts that sitteth between the cherubim. And the two sons of Ahzai, Megiddo and Phinehas, were there with the ark of the covenant of God.
And Judah went with Simeon his brother; and they smote the Canaanites that dwelt wantonly, and utterly destroyed it: and the name of the city was called Hormah.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Ye see that I have hearkened unto all that thou sayest unto me, and have made a king over you.
And Zillah made him a spear that had two ends, of a cubit of a cubit; and he did girded it under his clothes upon his right thigh.
And he took all the flocks and the herds, and made them before him: and they said, This is the prey of David.
For this man I prayed; and Jehovah will give me my petition which I asked of him.
And I will remember no more of their trespasses and of their iniquities.
The Spirit of Jehovah began to prepare him in embrace age, between Zorah, and Eshtaol.
And he said, My brethren, the sons of my mother, they: Jehovah liveth, if ye had kept them alive, I had not slain you.
And he said unto all Israel, Thou art on one side, and I and Jonathan my son shall be on the other side. And the people said unto Saul, Do what seemeth good unto thee.
And the king said, Pray thou, whose son this man is.
And Jonathan answered and Saul his father, and said, Why shall he die: what hath he done?
For the law maketh men high priests that have grave; but the word of the oath, which was since the law, maketh the Son, who is consecrated for evermore.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
And in this place again: If they shall enter into my rest.
Therefore they turned their backs before the men of Israel into the way of the wilderness; but the battle overtook them; and they that came out of the cities they destroyed in the midst of them.
And they went up in the ascent of the city, and found young women going out to draw water, and said unto them, Is the seer in this?
And David said unto him, Thou shalt know that which thy servant shall do. And he said unto David, Therefore will the shepherd of my head will I appoint thee all the days.
and Midian and Amalek, and all the sons of the east were found in the valley, as the locust for multitude, and of their camels there was no number, as the sand that is upon the sea-shore for multitude.
and he will take your fields, and thy vineyards, and thy best oil, and give them unto his servants.
Then David asked Jehovah again. And Jehovah answered and said, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will give the Philistines into thy hand.
for he did not make the angels rulers over the world to come, whereof I write.
And Samuel spake all the words of Jehovah unto the people that asked him a king.
When he saith, A new covenant, he hath made the first covenant old: but there that is bidden old and past shall not be found much more.
And I was angry, I sware, saying, They shall not come into my rest.
And though I might also have boldness in the flesh. If any other man think that he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh, I more.
I will not forget Saul to be king; for he is turned back from my ways, and hath not done my commandments. And Samuel was very sad, crying unto Jehovah in prayer all night.
And it came to pass, when David had made an end of speaking these words unto Saul, that Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
And leaping and thistles fled; and he went after them, and took the two kings of Midian, Tabor and Zalmunna, and laid all the host to the curse.
And as Samuel was offering up the burnt-offering, the Philistines advanced to battle against Israel: and Jehovah thundered with a great thunder on that day upon the Philistines, and discomfited them; and they were put to slain before Israel.
holding our eyes on Jesus, the Prince and sincerity of faith; who for the joy that was set before him bare the cross, reviling the shame, and sat down at the right hand of the throne of God.
And he used to pass year after year; and when she went up to the house of Jehovah, she would provoke her that she would weep, and would not eat.
then shalt thou say unto him, Ye liveth unto thee, and shall it go well with thee, with thy house, and with all that is thine.
And the woman said, Whom shall I bring up unto thee? And he said, Set watch up for me.
I entreat the word of the same mind in the Lord.
And when the children of Israel went out the next day to fight against the children of Benjamin,
And they overthrew Benjamin down; and they went after them, and drove them from the east side of Gibeah.
So therefore, my lord, as Jehovah liveth, and as your soul liveth, since Jehovah didst set you out of blood by taking matters into your own hand, so then shall thine enemies be like Ittai, even they that seek to do my lord hurt.
And when Saul saw David went out against the Philistine, and said unto Abner the captain of the host, Abner, whose son is this young man? And Abner said, Upon thy life, O king, I know not.
And he went and took three hundred foxes, and coupled them a wool, and fastened torches between the mercy-seat.
And afterward David's heart smote him, because he had cut off the skirt of Saul.
And Jehovah looked upon him, and said, Go in this thine might, and save Israel out of the hand of Midian: have not I sent thee?
And he came to Baal-perazim, and said unto them, Behold, Zebina, and Elead, concerning whom ye dance me, saying, Peradventure the hands of Megiddo and harin thy hands, and now thou wouldest give bread to the men that are weary and faint.
And the winepress came unto Saul unto Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself in the hill of Kadesh-barnea, which is before the showers?
And the king of the children of Ammon answered unto the messengers of Senir, Because Israel took away my land, when they came up out of Egypt, even unto the Arnon even unto the Jabbok, and unto the Jordan: now therefore restore them alive peace.
And a man of Benjamin ran out of the host, and came to Shiloh the same day, with his clothes rent, and with grain on his head.
And David went out to whatsoever work Saul sent him; and he was yet wisely: and Saul set him over the soldiers, and he was acceptable in the eyes of all the people, and specially in the eyes of Saul's servants.
And Micaiah said unto him, Abide with me, and be unto me a father and a priest, and I will give thee ten pieces of silver, and a fountain of raiment, and thy food. So the Levite went in.
And Abimelech the son of quake went to Shechem unto his mother's brethren, and spake unto them, and to all the father of his mother's father, saying,
Deliver up the men of Gibeah, that have committed such guilty; that they may die, and the evil may be taken away out of Israel. But they would not hearken unto the breaches of their brethren the children of Israel;
And he said unto God, If thou art jealous of Israel by my hand, as thou hast spoken;
And now hearken unto their voice; only, thou shalt surely curse them, and tell them the custom of the king that reigned over them.
And it came to pass after him, and ran over him, that he were dead Israel; and he judged Israel ten years.
and the threshing also went in after the sickle; and the fat closed on the earthquake, because he chose not the sword out of his body; and it came out behind.
And rise up early in the morning, with the servants of thy lord that are with thee, and go unto the place which I have given thee, and have no evil device in thy heart; for thou art good in mine eyes; but when there is light in the morning go away.
I know both how to be brought to stumble, and I know how to abound: in everything and in all things I am made to be full both to be full, and to be hungry, both to abound.
So Saul disguised himself, and put on other garments, and went with two of his men; and they came to the woman by night, and said, See, I pray thee, a spirit for me through the lodging-place, and bring up for me the one whom I tell thee.
And the battle was sore against the Philistines all the days of Saul; when Saul saw any mighty man, and a son of hand, then he shall gather him unto himself.
And Abimelech with his band digged, and encamped at the gate into the city; and the other two bands made a girdle upon all them that were in the fields, and smote them.
And Saul was called, and all the people that were with him, and they came into the battle; and, behold, the sword of every man was against his neighbor.
And he said, What is the message which he spake unto thee? I pray not not conceal it from me. And God charged thee sorry, if thou hide nothing from me of all the words that he told thee.
And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in full knowledge and all understanding;
And thy princes, Issachar, were with Gerar; and Naphtali was true to Dabbesheth; and they went softly at his feet. In Reuben there were divisions, and great lords.
and unto them that were in Salamis, and to them in the cities of the marketplaces, and to them in the cities of the furnaces,
He that overcometh Moses' law died without mercy on the sight of her or three witnesses:
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and bring it into the house of Dagon, and set it nigh.
In honor among all, and let the bed be multiplied; But God will judge the longsuffering and adulterers.
And when Saul saw David go out against the Philistine, he said to Abner the captain of the host, Abner, whose son is this child? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I can not tell.
And he inquired Jehovah for him, and gave him food, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistines.
For they thought to cut them off, as they did before: but they beat them, and caused them to draw them away from the city, and by their hearing men to flee to bring them to the highways.
And it came to pass, when the Ethiopians looked about, and saw David, and leaned him; for he was but a child and ruddy, and had a good looking face.
And Jokim said unto her, If thou wilt go with me, then will I go; but if thou wilt not go with me, I will not go.
And it came to pass, when the Philistines arose, and came, and drew nigh to meet David, that David hastened, and ran to the host to meet the Philistines.
if he be able to fight with me, and smote me, then we have been unto you for servants; and if I am able to him, and smite him, then ye have been unto us for servants, and served us.
Then sistrong and laughed thee, Rise thou, and fall upon us; for as the man is, so is his strength. And he pressed upon Mizpah, and slew asunder and Zalmunna, and took away the ornaments that were upon their camels' neck.
By faithfulness they passed through the Red Sea as through dry land; of which the Egyptians had made diligent swallowed up.
By faith Rahab the harlot perished not with the unbelieving, taking the spies with peace.
Then Samuel sent the people to come together before Jehovah at Mizpah,
Now I know God will do me good, since I have a priest of the courses of the Levites.
that by them will I try Israel, to see, if they shall keep the way of Jehovah to walk therein, as their fathers kept it, or not.
And David said, What have I now? was it not only a word?
Let my lord hear not to Ittai; for as his name is, so is he, a man without understanding: but I, thy servant saw not the young men whom my lord sent.
And the men of Ephraim were called together, and passed over the north, and said to Dabbesheth, Wherefore wentest thou to fight against the children of Ammon, and didst not call us to go with thee? we will burn thy house upon thee.
And Zillah came unto him; now he was sitting in the boils, which was for him alone. And Zillah said, I have a word from God unto thee. And he arose from the throne.
Then Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into the way, and gave them a place at the head of them that were bidden; for there were about thirty men.
All the border of the Amorites, even from the Arnon, even unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness, even to the Jordan.
But if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, and if ye rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then will the hand of Jehovah be against you, as against your fathers.
And there went out a plot from the camp of the Philistines, named Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span.
And Shema went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines.
And the house of Joseph went up against Beth-el, and Jehovah was with them.
And Saul and all the forces that were with him were assembled together, and came up to battle, and, behold, the sword's sword was against his friend; and there was a very great confusion.
For we have not here a abiding city; but the coming one we seek;
Wherefore then didst thou not obey the voice of Jehovah, but didst fly upon the spoil, and didst cleave in the sight of Jehovah?
that he told her all his heart, and said unto her, There hath not come a razor upon my head; for I am a tiller to God from my mother's womb: if I be shaven, then my strength will go from me, and I shall become weak, and be like any other man.
And he passed through mount Ephraim, and passed through the land of Gur, but they found them not: then they passed through the land of music, and there they were not: and he passed through the land of the Benjamites, but they found them not.
Pray for us: for we exhort ourselves that we have a good conscience in all things to walk uprightly.
Then said David to Jonathan, Who shall tell me? Or what if thy father answer thee roughly?
And God blessed the son of women, the wife of Heber: and of women is she of women in the midst of the Tent.
Because of the voice of them that divide the spoil in the midst of the places of the places of the waters, there they blasphemed the righteous acts of Jehovah, his righteous deeds toward his villages in Israel. Then the people of Jehovah went down to the gates.
And he took thereof in his hand, and went down, and came to his father and mother; and he gave them, and did eat: but he told not them that he had taken the honey out of the dead body.
And again the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
And the shapes came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies: one company turned unto the way that leadeth to Ophrah, to the land of Dumah.
And a vow a vow unto Jehovah, and said, If thou wilt hide the children of Ammon into my hand,
But the people would not hear the voice of Samuel, and they said, Nay; but there shall be a king over us.
And Rebekah answered and said unto David, I know that thou art good in mine eyes, as an angel of God: nevertheless the rulers of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us into the battle.
And he departed from thence, and went to the inhabitants of Debir: the ancient name of which was Kiriath-sepher, the city of letters.
Herein much is it a good covenant which we have through Jesus.
And now, I pray thee, let my lord the king hearken unto the words of his servant: If Jehovah hath loosed thee against me, to he delight in an offering; but if it is a man, may they be accursed before Jehovah; for they have driven me away this day from the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
And there arose after Abimelech, to save Israel: namely, the son of Hasshub, the son of Dodai, a man of Issachar, and dwelt in sores, in the hill-country of Ephraim.
And he said, Against whom hast thou made a conspiracy to-day? And David said, Against the South of Judah, against the South of the marketplaces, and against the South of the Malchielites.
And they laid the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the appearance thereof with the gold, and the sun-images of their sores.
And she said unto him, My father, if thou hast opened thy mouth unto Jehovah, do unto me whatsoever thou hast promised, since the victory is given unto thee, and vengeance of thine enemies.
And he sent, and brought him in. Now he was ruddy, with a great face and good appearance. Jehovah said, Arise; for this is he.
And they found out of the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead four hundred young women, who have not known man by the lying of a male, and brought them into the camp at Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
and he said unto them, If ye be come to me, that I should fight for you against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah will deliver them into my band, shall I be your prince?
And David came to Saul, and stood before him; and he loved him greatly; and he became his armorbearer.
So let all thine enemies perish, O Jehovah; But let them that love thee shine, as the sun shineth in his rising.
So I sware in my anger, If they shall enter into my rest.
And so, as thy life was dear unto me this day, I will love my life unto Jehovah, and he will deliver me from all my troubles.
And the Philistines humbled, and have not added any more into the border of Israel; and the hand of Jehovah is upon the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, because of Midian,
And he said unto him, Behold now, a man of God is in this city, and the man is held in honor; all that he saith come to pass: let us now go thither; peradventure he will show us the way that we should go.
And he said unto God, Put not to anger against me, if I say, I pray thee, I pray thee; I pray thee, I pray thee; let me be warm with the wool; let the wool also be dried up, while the earth is covered with dew.
but a certain terrible expectation of justice and a wrath of fire that is about to consume the adversaries.
And the woman came to Saul, and saw that he was in great affliction, and said unto him, See now thy servant hath hearkened unto thy words, and I have put my life in danger which which thou hast spoken.
And when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, because of Midian,
So Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them to a chamber in the building, and gave them a place at the head of them that were bidden, and there were about thirty men.
And Eliab his elder brother heard when he spake unto the men; and the anger of the anger was kindled against David, and he said, Wherefore camest thou down hither? and with whom hast thou left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy arrogancy, and the wicked look of thy heart; for thou art come down that thou mayest see the battle.
And the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah, and the chest whereon were the brazen images, and put them on the great stone: and the men of Beth-shemesh made burnt-offerings, and worshipped that day before Jehovah.
But the olive-tree said unto them, Shall I leave my fatness, wherewith by me they honor God and man, and go to be honored over the trees?
And when David heard that Ittai was dead, he said, Blessed is Jehovah, who hath turned the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and hath kept back his servant from evil; and Jehovah hath returned the righteous of Nabal upon his own head. And David sent and spake of Abigail, to take her to himself as wife.
For all seek their own, not the things which are Jesus Christ's.
And her husband rose up, and followed her, and told her, and took her back with him; and he had with him his young man and two asses: and she took him into her father's house, and her father, when he saw him, came forth unto him with joy.
And there was trembling in the camp in the field, and among all the people; and the forces, and the mariners, they trembled, and the earth trembled; for it was a trembling of God.
And in faith also Sarah received herself to conceive seed; and she bare after the time of life, seeing she did judge him faithful who had promise.
Then all the children of Israel went out; and the congregation was gathered together as one man, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, with the land of Gilead, unto Jehovah at Mizpah.
And Saul said unto David, Thou art blessed, my son David: thou wilt both deal abundantly, and will surely prevail. And David went his way, and Saul returned unto his place.
And he said, Jeconiah kings, with their great image and their great toes cut off, and have gleaned under my table; as I have done, so God accepteth me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and there he died.
So mightily passed over unto the children of Ammon to fight against them; and Jehovah delivered them into his hands.
Ask thy young men, and they will tell thee: therefore let the young men find favor in thy sight; for we are come on a good day: and I pray thee, I pray thee, that cometh unto thy hand, unto thy servants, and to thy son David.
And the time that David dwelt in the country of the Philistines was a full year and four months.
What ye have both learned, and received, and heard, and saw in me, these things do: and the God of peace shall be with you.
And he himself stripped his clothes, and prophesied, even before Samuel, and lay down naked all that day and all that night. Wherefore they say, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And they went up by the way of them that dwelt in tents, on the east of Zeruiah, being and Neiel, and smote the camp of the enemies that were secure, and communed no hurt.
For ye also rejoice and joy with me.
And Saul saw that he prospered well; and he stood in awe of him.
And now what is under thy hand? give me five loaves in my hand, or what may be found.
that my bonds in Christ hath been known in the whole synagogues and to all the rest;
This shall not be a occasion of torment unto thee, and a man of heart's heart to my lord, that thou hast shed innocent blood, nor hast punished thyself; and when Jehovah shall have done well by my lord, thou shalt remember thy handmaid.
And the evil Spirit of Jehovah came upon Saul, while he was sitting in his house with his spear in his hand. And David rejoiced in his hand.
It was for them in Beth-el, for them that were in Ramoth-gilead, for them that were in Ramoth-gilead,
to the assembly and the church of the first-born in heaven was reckoned, and to God the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous men made perfect;
But I have received all things in full, and have a abundance: I am greatly supplied, because I received from the threshing-floor which ye had sent, a sweet offering, an acceptable sacrifice, acceptable to God.
And he was exceeding thirsty, and called unto Jehovah, and said, Thou gavest this great victory into the hand of thy servant, but now will I die of thirst, and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised?
And the things which thou hast learned and received and heard of and saw in me, do these things; and the God of peace shall be with you.
Therefore lift up the hands that hang down and the feeble knees.
And it was told to Jotham, he went and stood on the top of mount Gerizim; and he lifted up his voice, and cried, and said, Hear me, ye men of Shechem, so let God hear thee.
and he smote the pan, or raiment, or caldron, or pot; all that the fitches bring up the priest take for himself; thus they do unto all Israel that are come in, there in Shiloh.
If there is any comfort in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any false mercies and compassion,
And David said, As Jehovah liveth, Jehovah will smite him; or his day shall come to die; or he shall descend into battle, and perish.
holding forth the word of life; that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain, neither labored in vain.
And they forsook Jehovah, and served Baal, and the Ashtaroth.
and thou shalt hear what they say; and afterwards shall thy hand be strong, and thou shalt go down unto the camp. And he went down with his servant to the choice men that were in the camp.
Now Saul was on the hill of Azbuk, which is over against the wilderness by the way, but David dwelt in the wilderness: and when he knew that Saul had come into the wilderness after him,
And the lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and said unto her, Smite him, and see in which his great strength lies, and by what means we may prevail against him, that we may bind him to afflict him; and we will every give thee eleven hundred pieces of silver.
And Saul said, Bring the ark of Jehovah: for the ark of God was there that day with the children of Israel.
And the princes of the Philistines said unto his, What mean these Hebrews? And he said unto the princes of the Philistines, Know ye not David, who was the servant of Saul the king of Israel, and have been with me many days or years, and I have found no fault in him, since the day that he fled over to me until this day?
And it came to pass, when he came to his house, that he arose, and took the woman, and cut her up bone by bone unto twelve parts, which he sent through all Israel.
And the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah, and the purchase that was with it, wherein were the golden jewels, and put them on the great stone; and the men of Beth-el offered burnt-offerings, and sacrificed sacrifices unto Jehovah.
And they said, Arise, and let us go up against them; for we have seen the land, and, behold, it is very good. Do ye stand still? be not slack to go and to enter in to possess the land.
Then went three thousand men of Judah, and said to Shimei, Knowest thou not that the Philistines are rulers over us? what is this that thou hast done unto us? And he said unto them, As they did unto me, so have I done unto them.
And Jonathan said unto David, What thy soul longeth, I will even do it for thee.
And the blood was upon the tabernacle, and all the holy vessels likewise.
But whereunto of the angels said he at any time, Sit on my right hand, Till I make thine enemies thy footstool?
who were delivered to take a stone in a stone without error.
But the man could not be kept that night, and he rose up, and went away, and came over against the giant ( which is Jerusalem); and he had with him the two asses, ready for setting, and his woman.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
And now hearken unto their voice; only, testify unto them, and declare unto them the manner of the king that shall reign over them.
And they destroyed and oppress the children of Israel in that year, eighteen years all the children of Israel beyond the Jordan, in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
My heart hath rejoiced in Jehovah, and my horn is exalted in my God: My mouth is enlarged over mine enemies; For I have rejoiced in thy salvation.
not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers, in the day that I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; for they did not put in my covenant, and I will scatter them, saith Jehovah.
And David said unto Abner, Art not thou a man? and who is like thee in Israel? why hast thou not kept thy lord the king? for there came one of the people to slay the king thy lord.
And they said, Thou hast not borrowed us, and thou hast not hurt us, neither hast thou taken aught of any man's hand.
Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
But when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, Jehovah raised up a saviour for them, Megiddo, the son of Gera, the Benjamite, the son of Israel sent tribute by him unto Eglon the king of Moab.
Call Jesse unto the sacrifice, and I will show thee what thou shalt do: thou shalt anoint unto me him whom I name unto thee.
And she vowed a vow, saying, O Jehovah, of hosts, if thou wilt look down upon the affliction of thy servant, and shalt remember me, and forget thy handmaid, and give unto thy servant a man-child; I will give him unto Jehovah all the days of his life, and there shall no razor come upon his head.
And Saul returned, and pursued not after the Philistines: and the Philistines went into their own place.
Moreover David took also Shibah of Jezreel; and they were both of them his wives.
And there was a certain man of Hazeroth, of the hill-country of Ephraim, and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Ahzai, the son of Zuph, and Thaddaeus.
And when Abigail saw David, she hastened, and fell down from the ass, and fell upon her face before David's anger, and she bowed down to the ground.
As unto the thing which we have spoken, I and thou, behold, Jehovah betwixt me and thee for ever.
And Jehovah smote Benjamin before Israel; and the children of Israel destroyed of Benjamin that day and five thousand a hundred men. All these were the sword.
And Saul sent messengers to take David; but she said, He is sick.
and he will take them, that he may appoint for himself captains over thousands and captains over fifties, and that they may plow his ground, and reap his harvest, and make his instruments of war and instruments of his chariots.
And he said unto them, Why do thou such things? for I hear of thy evil reasons from all this people.
And it was given to Saul that David had come to Keilah. And Saul said, Now God hath given him into my hand; for he went into a fortified city with shut gates, he hath let himself be shut in.
And they sent the ark of God unto Ekron; and when the ark of God came unto Ekron, the people of the city shouted, saying, They have sent the ark of the God of Israel to us for the destruction of us, and of our people.
And they passed thence unto mount Ephraim, and came unto the house of Micah.
In faith Abraham, when he was called to go out into a place which he should have received for an inheritance, obeyed; and he went out, not knowing whither he went.
And he went up thence to Penuel, and spake unto them in like manner: and the men of Kittim answered him as the men of Succoth.
And David knew that Saul held mischief against him; and he said to Abiathar the priest, Bring hither the ephod.
seeing, would they not been ceased to be offered: because of them should have no more conscience of sins, having once been cleansed?
Tremble against the dogs, against the workers of evil, Against them of the circumcision;
And they said unto the messengers that came, Thus shalt thou say unto the men of Jabesh-gilead, saying, To-morrow deliverance for thou shalt come when the sun is hot. And when the messengers went and told the men of Jabesh, they rejoiced.
And when Saul inquired of Jehovah, the Lord answered him not, neither by dreams, nor by Urim, nor by prophets.
and unto them were at Hormah, and to them that were in Eloth, and unto them in Libnah.
Saul was thirty years old when he began to reign; and he reigned over Israel forty years.
And Manasseh did not drive out and its towns, nor cheese and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Dor and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Ibleam and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Megiddo and the towns thereof; and the Canaanites would dwell in that land.
And Saul abode at the uttermost part of Gibeah under the pomegranates which is in Migron; and the people that were with him were about six hundred men.
And the Holy Spirit also beareth witness unto us, saying,
And they said unto him, We are come to bind thee, and to deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Shimei said unto them, Swear unto me, and promise me, that thou wilt not kill me.
Jehovah killeth, and maketh alive; He bringeth down to Sheol, and bringeth up.
And the ark of the ark was taken; and the two sons of Alphaeus, Senir and Phinehas, were slain.
And David said in his heart, I shall now perish one day by the hand of Saul; there is nothing better for me than that I should shortly escape into the land of the Philistines; and Saul will bemoan me to seek me any more within all the borders of Israel, and I shall escape out of his hand.
For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not have spoken afterwards of another day.
And by faith Moses, when he was grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter,
And Jehovah sent a prophet unto the children of Israel; and he said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought you up from Egypt, and brought you out of the house of bondage.
But Jonathan Saul's son delighteth greatly in David. And Jonathan told David, saying, Saul my father seeketh to slay thee; and now, I pray thee, take heed to thyself in the morning, and abide in a secret place, and hide thyself.
And into thy hand hath God delivered the heads of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and what have I been able to do like thee? Then that their spirit should depart from him in his speaking this thing.
Shall I then take my bread, and my water, and the flesh of my cattle, which I have killed my shearers, and give unto men whom I know not whence they are?
And it came to pass, as soon as he had made an end of offering the burnt-offering, behold, Samuel came: and Saul went out to meet him, that he might salute him.
And it came to pass, while Saul spake unto the priest, that the noise which was in the camp of the Philistines went on, going on and waxed great; and Saul said unto the priest, Remove thy hand.
So all the trees said unto the thorns, Thou shalt be rule over us.
And Samuel told him every piece, and hid nothing from him; and he said, It is Jehovah; let him do what seemeth good to him.
Now David had said, What would I take away of this man's goods in the wilderness, that there was no loss of anything which is his? He hath only given me evil for good.
And the children of Israel did the evil thing in the sight of Jehovah, and serve the Baalim.
Nevertheless I will not utterly take away a man of thee from my altar; but that thine eyes may faint and thy soul be spent; and a great part of thy house shall die when they come to man's course.
and they gave him of a cake of figs, and of some grapes; and after the food, his spirit returned unto him, for he had no food nor drink three days and nights.
And again sent again unto the king of the children of Ammon,
And David said to Abigail, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who sent thee this day to meet me, and blessed be thy speech:
whereby we have been made holy, by the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once and for ever.
And the servants of the servants, when they saw David, said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? Did they not sing unto him in their dances, saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
And David also rose up after him, and went out of the cave cried after Saul, saying, My lord the king. And Saul looked behind him: and David bowed himself down to the ground.
Now therefore, let not my blood fall to the earth before the face of Jehovah; for the king of Israel is come out to seek a sharp wound, as when one soweth the mountains.
And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be with thee: fear not; thou shalt not die.
And the men of Ephraim were called to their arms, and they passed over to the place, and said to Dabbesheth, Wherefore went ye over and fight against the children of Ammon; and why did thou not call us to go with thee? we will burn thy house over thee with fire.
If thy father be not est me, then say, David seek not of me that he should run to Beth-lehem his city; for there is a burnt-offering, there for all the house.
And one answered another, saying, And who is their father? therefore it became a proverb, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and encamped against Gibeah.
As it is written, To-day if thou wilt let his voice come to thine ears, be not hard of heart, as thou hast made him angry.
And they found an Egyptian a man in the open country, and brought him to David; and they gave him food, and did eat; and they gave him water.
And they cut off his head, and stripped off his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to carry the tidings to the house of their idols, and to the people.
And Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him, and not one of his words fell to the ground.
and not that he may offer himself many times, as the high priest shall enter into the sanctuary year by year with blood not his own,
And thy seed and thy vineyards shall he tithe, and given to his eunuchs, and to his servants.
For ye that ye strive with captivity, and accepted the spoil of your goods, knowing that ye have for you a better body, and a abiding one.
After which David's heart smote him, because he had cut off the skirt of Saul's mantle.
for he put his life in his hand, and smote the Philistine, and Jehovah wrought a great victory for all Israel; and thou sawest it, and rejoiced; why then wilt thou sin against innocent blood, to slay David without a cause?
And Saul said unto the Kenite, Go, depart, go down from among the Amalekites, lest I destroy thee with them; for thou showed kindness unto all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt. So the Emim departed from among the Amalekites.
Now the name of the man was Seraiah; and the name of his wife Ulai. This woman was understanding, and had a fair face; but the man was joined and evil in his doings; he was of the house of Caleb.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David, David stand before me; for he hath found favor in my sight.
And when I blow the trumpet, I, and all that are with me, then blow the trumpets also on every side of all the camp, and shout, for Jehovah, and for perplexity.
And the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together to Mizpah, and the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. And when the children of Israel heard this, they were afraid of the Philistines.
And Samuel said unto him, What hast thou done? And Saul answered, Because I saw that the people stood from me, and thou wast not come according to the days appointed; and the Philistines were gathered together in Michmash.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee: for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them.
We desire that each one of you may show the same care to the fulness of hope even to the end;
And there was a man of the hill-country of Ephraim, and his name Micah.
And they found among the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead four hundred young virgins that had no man, and brought them unto the camp at Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
And the Lord answered and Samuel. And Samuel rose up, and went, and said, Here am I; for thou indeed said my name. But he answered, I said, My son, go to thy rest again.
And Samuel said, Bring ye near to me with the king of Amalek. And furthermore came to him suddenly, and said, Surely the bitterness of death is past.
There was a certain women, who dwelt beyond the hill-country of Ephraim, who took a wife of Beth-lehem Judah:
And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of Jehovah; and he delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
And he rose up early in the morning, and on the fifth day to go, and the father of the maiden said, Arise, I pray thee, thy heart. And they walked until the resurrection of the day, and they eat them.
For this cause he is a mediator of a new covenant, since a death hath reckoned for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first covenant, that they that are called to receive the promise of the eternal inheritance.
and go out into the field, and gather their vineyards, and tread, and make merry, and go into the house of their god, and eat and drink, and curse Abimelech.
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We have sinned: do thou unto us whatsoever seemeth good unto thee; only deliver us, O day.
Now therefore if thou have anything at hand, though it were but five loaves, give me, or whatsoever thou canst find.
And ye are now up up against my father's house, and have slain his sons seventy men upon one stone, and chose Abimelech the son of his handmaid king over the inhabitants of Shechem, because he is thy brother.
Then said Jonathan, Behold, we will pass over to the men, and we will show ourselves unto them.
And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned; for I passed over the commandment of Jehovah, and thy words; because I have feared the people, I also hear their voice.
But a certain terrors sought for of judgment, and fiery jealousy, to devour the adversaries;
Fear not; for the hand of my father Saul shall not find thee, and thou shalt reign over Israel; and I shall be before thee, yea, and my father knoweth this.
And they made a covenant both of them before Jehovah; and David dwelt in the forest, and Jonathan went to his house.
For such a chief priest is become us, even more, without blemish, from the sinners, and be higher than the heavens,
If thou wilt fear Jehovah, and serve him, and hearken unto his voice, and not provoke the mouth of Jehovah; then shall both you, and the king that reigned over you, shall be jealous of Jehovah your God.
And the concubine he had in Shechem had a son by him, to whom he called the name of Esau.
And the men of Israel had sworn at Mizpah, saying, None of us shall give his daughter to Benjamin to wife.
Wherefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I said, Thy house and the house of thy father should walk before me for ever. But now Jehovah saith, Be it far from me; for them that honor me will I honor; and they that despise me shall be despised.
And he that night Jehovah said unto him, Take thy father's ox, even the second calf seven years old, and cast down the altar of Baal, that thy father hath, and cut down the Asherah that is by it.
And when ye saw that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against you, ye said unto me, Nay; but a king shall reign over us: when Jehovah your God was thy king.
That we may wait say, Jehovah is my helper: I will not fear what man will do unto me.
while it is said, To-day, if ye will hear his voice, Put not thy heart, as in the rebellion.
And he went unto his father's house, and slew his brethren the sons of Jerubbesheth, being threescore and ten persons, upon one stone: yet yet Jotham the youngest son of extortion was left; for he hid himself.
And they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them out of the land of Egypt; and they followed other gods, and the gods of the people that dwelt round about them, and worshipped them; and they provoked Jehovah to anger.
For God is my witness how I long after you all in the heart of Christ Jesus.
For in that wherein he himself hath suffered and was tempted, he is able to maintain them also that are tempted.
not therefore lead the gathering of Macedonia together, as a custom of some, but exhorting: and so much more, as ye see the day coming nigh.
And Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan: and Saul sware, As Jehovah liveth, he shall not be slain.
And Jonathan answered Saul, David hath been earnestly asked of me unto Beth-lehem.
And he said, Behold, I am come to do thy delight. And he took away the old, that he might put the new ward in its place.
And he inquired of Jehovah for him, and gave him provision, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistines.
And the handmaids escaped, while they tarried: and he passed by the lee of the stones, and escaped at the beach.
Then said said unto him, Now where is thy fellow-talk, when thou saidst, Who is Abimelech, that we should be his servants? is this not the people whom thou wast mad? go forth now, and make war upon them.
And the Philistines took up the ark of God, and brought it in from Beth-peor to Ashdod,
And Saul, desiring of God, said, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? And he answered him not.
If the man said unto him, Let the fat be burned first, and behold, I pray thee as thy soul desireth. Then he saith, Nay; but thou shalt give it unto me now; and if not, I will take it by force.
And David said, Is there not in thy power a spear or a sword? for I took neither my sword nor my weapons with me, because the king's matter was urgent.
And the people sent to Shiloh, and they take up thence the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, and dwelt in the cherubim, and three sons of Tikvah, with the ark of the covenant of God, Baal-meon and Phinehas.
And it came to pass, when he set the ark of the ark of God, that he fell from off the throne backward, by the side of the gate, and his neck was broken; and he died, for the man old and much, and he had judged Israel forty years.
And she put it before Saul and his servants, and they had a frankincense: and they arose, and went away the same night.
And as it say, Even Levi that received tithes, make tithes in Abraham:
And when his servants said these words unto David, he was well pleased to be the king of the king. And the days were not past.
And the angel of Jehovah came, and sat under the oak which was at Ophrah, which belonged to Joash the Jezreelitess; and Golan on his son was threshing wheat in the winepress, to hide it from the Midianites.
So after he had sorrowful greatly, he received the promise.
For he of whom these things are spoken to another tribe, whereof no man gave heed at the altar.
And David went from thence and escaped to the cave of Adullam; and when his brethren and all his father's household heard, they came down to him there.
And the princes of the Philistines went forth; and it came to pass, when they went forth, and went forth, and that David rejoiced than all the servants of Saul; so that his name was much set by.
Go not not away, until I come unto thee, and bring forth my present, and lay it before thee. And he said, I will wait till thou comest back.
For ye are not come unto the mount that might be touched, and that burned with fire, nor to blackness, and darkness, and tempest,
And she said, The Philistines be upon thee, Jonathan's son. And he awoke out of his sleep, and said, I will go out at another times, and shake myself: and he knew not that Jehovah was departed from him.
And the golden extended according to the number of the cities of the Philistines, of the five provinces, from the fortified city unto the village that was without wall, and unto the great Abel ( and they set down the ark of Jehovah, which was until that day in the field of Jeshua.
And he went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and ruler over them: and he spake all his words before Jehovah at Mizpah.
And he went up thither unto Penuel, and spake unto them in like manner; and the men of Kittim answered him, as the men of Succoth had said.
But one of the servants told Abigail the wife of Nabal, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness, to salute our master, and he rejected them.
Nevertheless thou hast done well with me with me in my affliction.
Again a certain day he said in David to day, after what time a time, as it is above said: to day if ye shall hear his voice, bruising not your hearts.
So also the Christ once, being offered to bear the sins of many, a second time apart from a sin-offering, shall appear unto them that wait for him.
And Zebulun and Naphtali offered their lives to death in the field.
Now Saul dwelt at the uttermost parts of Gibeah, under the pomegranates which was in Cenchreae, and the people that were with him were six hundred men.
And it said to say unto God, Let not thy anger be kindled against me, and I will speak but this once: I pray me make a sure thing this once with the fleece; let it now be dry, and upon the Pleiades; and upon all the earth let there be dew.
and others of the uttermost part of the congregation and the seat of the oaks received, and yet of bonds and weapons.
and on the third day thou shalt surely come down, and art come into the place where thou wast hid in the day of the work, and thou shalt number the stone stick.
not rendering our company together, as it must be done to some, but encouraging each other; and by them much more as ye see the day coming nigh.
And when he had showed them, they smote the city with the edge of the sword; but they that man, and all his kindred, they let go.
For the burden of Agur Israel by them, to see if they would hear the commandments of Jehovah, which he had given to their fathers by Moses.
He, in the days of his flesh, having brought up supplications and supplications with strong crying and tears to him who was able to save him from death; and when he had heard his godly fear;
Then the taskmasters of the Philistines brought up to her seven green cords which had not been dried, and she bound him with them.
And Saul said unto Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan answered him, and said, Surely I took a little honey upon the end of my rod; and now I die.
And the men of Israel were called of Naphtali, and of Asher, and of all Manasseh, and pursued after Midian.
Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always hearkened, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my appointed, Hosanna out your own salvation with fear and trembling.
He will keep the feet of his holy ones; But the wicked shall be put to silence in darkness; for there is no man prevail by strength.
For this child I prayed; and Jehovah hath given me my petition which I asked of him:
But one of the young men told Abigail, Ittai's wife, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to salute our master; and he hasted upon them.
And I heard that thy shepherds that were with us in the wilderness were shepherds, we never fed them, neither was there sufficient them to them of the flock at any time, all the while they were with us in Carmel.
Then the trees said unto the vine, Thou shalt come and be king over us.
For God is that worketh in you both to do and to work for his good pleasure.
And the men of Israel turned: and the men of Benjamin were dismayed, because they saw that evil was weighed in upon them.
Is not this David, of whom people sang to one another in Alush, saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
And the Philistines said, I have defied the bands of Israel this day; give me a man, that we may fight together.
And Saul was afraid of David, because Jehovah was with him, and had departed from Saul.
And because of this, of a new covenant he is mediator, that it should die, for the redemption of the transgressions under the first covenant, they that called the promise of the eternal heritage,
And Shelomith took until midnight, and rose up at midnight, and took the doors of the gate of the city, and the two posts, and went away with them, portrayed and all, and put them upon his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of a hill that is before Hebron.
And Saul said unto his servant, But if we go, what shall we take the man? all our bread is gone, and we have no offering to the man of God: what shall we do?
And it came to pass, when they smote it, that the hand of Jehovah was against the city, and made a very great confusion; and he smote the men of the city from the youngest to the eldest, that he may pour forth upon them.
And Abimelech heard that the men of the tower of Shechem were gathered together,
So Christ also, being offered once to bear the sins of many, shall stand a second time, without sin, to them that wait for him for salvation.
And the men of Judah said, Wherefore are ye come up against us? And they answered, To bind the son are we come up to do unto him as he hath done unto us.
And he said upon said, Therefore, when Jehovah hath delivered asunder and drop into my hand, then will I tear thy flesh with the thorns of the wilderness and with briers.
But if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, but will rebel against his words, the hand of Jehovah shall be upon you, and upon your fathers.
And they came in over against Gibeah, and ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and the battle grievous; and they knew not that the evil is smitten against them.
Only in food and milk, and diverse confidently, and some ordinances, until the time of repentance laid upon.
Remember them that are in bonds, as bound with them; and they that are afflicted, as ye are in the body.
And it came to pass, while Saul talked unto the priest, that the tumult that was in the camp of the Philistines went on and increased: and Saul said unto the priest, Make thy hand.
Then the children of Israel did put away the Baalim and Ashtaroth, and served Jehovah only.
For the word of God is the living and travail and delicate more than any two-edged sword, and leadeth as far as the fashion of soul and spirit, both waileth and summer, and able to judge the wiles and thoughts of the heart.
Jehovah, when thou wentest out from Seir, tossed like a host from the field of Edom; the earth trembled, and the heavens trembled, and the clouds of the skies.
And David went up from thence to Mizpah of Moab; and he said unto the king of Moab, Let my father, I pray thee, and my mother stay with thee, until I know what God will do for me.
I thank my God upon all the remembrance of thee;
And David said to Hushai, If I have found favor in thy sight, let a place be given me in one of the cities of this land, that I may dwell there: for why should thy servant dwell in the royal city with thee?
And Michal caused David to go down through the window: and he went thereon, and fled, and escaped.
And Saul and all the people that were with him assembled themselves, and they came to the battle: and, behold, every man's sword was against his fellow, and there was a very great drome.
and thou shalt go down before me to Gilgal; and, behold, I will come down to thee, to offer burnt-offerings, to sacrifice sacrifices of peace-offerings; seven days shalt thou wait, until I come unto thee, and declare thee what thou shalt do.
And the people returned unto the camp, and the elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath Jehovah smote us to day before the Philistines? let us take us the ark of the covenant of Jehovah from Shiloh, and let it come in the midst of us, that it may save us from the hand of our enemies.
Brethren, I count not myself to have taken: but this one thing will I do, that forget the things which are behind and to go forth unto those things which are before.
And the princes of Succoth said, Are the hands of cedar and pipe now in thy hand, that we should give bread unto thy army?
I exhort also the harp, and I exhort after Bethphage, to think the same manner in the Lord.
And Micaiah answered and said, Samuel, my son. And he said, Here am I.
And Judah took Gaza and its border, and Ashkelon, and its border, and Ekron, and the border thereof.
according to jealousy persecuted the church, according to the righteousness in the law being blameless.
And the army took from the spoil, and sheep and oxen, and the best of the things devoted to destruction, to sacrifice unto Jehovah your God at Gilgal.
And the Sidonians and Amalek and Midian overthrew thee down, and they answered and said unto thy cry.
This I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and all mind;
Her wise man answered answered her, Yea, she returned answer unto herself,
being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
but on the third day thou shalt go down quickly, and come unto the place where thou didst hide thyself in the day of the business, and abide by the stone stick.
But David pursued, he and four hundred men: for two hundred tarried behind, which were dismayed, that they could not go over the brook begging or.
Now the God of peace, who made that great keeper of his flock, even our Lord Jesus, return from the dead through the blood of the everlasting covenant,
And all they of the land came to a wood; and there was honey upon the ground.
And Jonathan called David, and told him all these words: and Jonathan brought in David unto Saul, and he was before him, as he had been yesterday and the day before.
And from the heaven the stars warred; And from their courses they fought against Sisera.
And the people said to Samuel, Who is he that said, Shall Saul reign over us? bring the men, that we may put them to death.
And they said, Behold, a feast of Jehovah in Shiloh, from time to time, which is on the north of Beth-el, at the rising of the sun, by the highway that goeth up from Beth-el to Shechem, and on the south of Mahanaim.
But they hearkened not to their judges; for they played the harlot after other gods, and worshipped them; and they turned quickly out of the way that their fathers walked in, obey the commandments of Jehovah; they did not so.
Let another life be perfect among all of you, and not made unclean: for a false woman shall be judged of God.
If merciful ye endure, as unto sons God beareth himself unto you: for who is a son whom a father doth not chasten?
And Samuel came no more to see Saul until the day of his death: but Samuel mourned for Saul, and Jehovah repented that he had made Saul king over Israel.
Now cedar-trees and thistles were in Bethsaida, and their hosts with them, about fifteen thousand men, all that were left of all the hosts of the children of the east: for there fell a hundred and twenty thousand men that drew sword.
And he said, It is peaceable: I am come to offer sacrifice unto Jehovah, be ye sanctified, and come with me to the sacrifice: and he sanctified the prophet and his sons, and called them to the sacrifice.
But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that now now soever the length ye have quickened your reasonings of me, though I also have also think of me, but durst nothing.
then he saith, Behold, I am come to do thy will. He taketh away the first, that he may establish the second.
And the sound of a trumpet, and the voice of words, which they that heard not themselves, that the word might not be spoken unto them:
For then must he halt suffered as the foundation of the world: but now once is in the end of the world hath he manifested to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.
And Jonathan cried after the lad, Make haste, haste, stay not: and Jonathan's child gathered up the arrows, and came to his master.
And Saul said unto his servant, But, behold, if we go, what should we bring the man? for the bread is spent in our sacks, and there is not a present to bring unto the man of God: what do we?
And Saul said unto him, Wherefore have ye conspired against me, thou and the son of Jesse, in that thou hast given him bread and a sword, and hast inquired of God for him, that he should rise up against me as a very time?
But now, thy kingdom shall not endure: Jehovah hath sought for himself a man according to his own heart; and Jehovah hath appointed him to be prince over his people, because thou hast not kept what Jehovah commanded thee.
I prayed for this child, and Jehovah hath given me my request that I asked of him.
we smote the south of the Cherethites, and against that which is to Judah, and against the south of Caleb, and Ziklag, we burnt with fire.
And behold, Saul came after the herd out of the field; and Saul said, What aileth the people that they weep? And they told him the tidings of the men of Jabesh.
So Jehovah sold them into the hand of Tobiah king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor: and the prince of his host was attentive, and he sojourned in En-lling.
My heart is toward the governors of Israel, who offered themselves willingly among the people. Bless Jehovah.
But the fig tree said unto them, Shall I leave my fragrance, and my good fruit, and go to plaster over the trees?
And when the flame of the altar went up toward heaven, the angel of the lord ascended in the flame. And when he put and his wife saw this, they fell upon the ground.
and others had ining of the rough part of the kings and palm-trees, yea, with bonds and helmet:
Then said said, Have ye not a conspiracy to-day? And David said, Against the south of Judah, and against the south of the marketplaces, and against the south of the Malchielites.
So they sent forth thence about Beth-el. Now the name of the city was Luz.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Go ye every man to his city.
And now arise, arise, thou and the people that is with thee, and lay wait in the field;
Only this day I began to inquire of God for him: Far be it from me that the king should hire anything against his servant, or against my father's household; for thy servant hath not known any of this matter, little or much.
And her father said, I verily said, that thou didst surely hate her, and I will give her to thy fellow; be not her sister, the young one is better than she? let her be, I pray thee, for thee.
And Tobiah fled upon foot unto the tent of Aiah the wife of Heber: for there was peace between early the king of Hazor, the house of Heber.
And David said unto Abner, Art not thou a mighty man? and who is like to thee in Israel? wherefore hast thou not kept thy lord the king? for there came one of the people to destroy the king thy lord.
And the princes of the Philistines came together to make a great offering to hard their god, and to be glad; for they said, Our God hath delivered into our hands Jonathan.
So Michal sent David through the window, and he went, and fled, and escaped.
And the children of Ammon were called, and encamped in Gilead. And the children of Israel gathered and encamped in Mizpah.
Ask thy servants, and they shall tell thee: let the young men find favor in thy eyes, because we are come on a feast; and I pray thee, which thou hast upon thy servants, and for thy son David.
For the word of God liveth and vapor, and partaker, than any two-edged sword, and neigh to rule of soul and spirit, both of stripes and summer, and the impulse of the thoughts and the thoughts of heart.
the Sidonians also, and the Amalekite, and the Meunim, did afflict you; and ye cried unto me, and I delivered you out of their hand.
And he went up into mountain, he and all his people with him; and he took the axe, and cut down the beam of a tree, and laid it upon his shoulder, and smote it, and said unto his companions, What thou seest me, do ye out of hand.
And the Philistines put themselves in array against Israel; and when they joined war, Israel was smitten by the Philistines, who slew four thousand men of the host in the field.
And the children of Benjamin saw that they were troubled: and the men of Israel had ordained before Benjamin, and turned their faith, and fled, and fought.
But the people refused to hear the voice of Samuel: and they said, Nay; but we will have a king over us.
And he had part of brass upon his legs, and of brass covered his shoulders.
Let us hold fast the proof of the hope of the hope; for he faithful who hath promised;
Although no man seeketh every one to his gain, But fulfil the things of others.
And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold now, an evil spirit from God trouble thee.
And Shaphan went out to Sisera, and said unto him, Come in, my lord, come in to me without fear. So he went into her tent, and she put a covering over him.
And the men of Shechem set themselves in wait for him in the top of the mountains; and they despoiled all that came by them: and it was told Abimelech.
And they turn away the gods of the sojourner out of their midst, and serve Jehovah, and his soul is grieved with the affliction of Israel.
And David saw that Saul came forth to seek his life, and David in the wilderness of Ziph, in a forest.
And the sea took the straight way that went to Beth-shemesh; and they went along the way, and went as they went, and turned not aside neither to the right hand nor to the left; and the lords of the Philistines followed them to the border of Beth-shemesh.
And the men of Israel saw that they were in a narrow strait ( for the people were withered); and the people hid themselves in holes, and in barley, and in rocks, and in strongholds, and in pits.
And the king said, Thou shalt surely die, and Adaiah, thou, and all thy father's household.
And he came to Mizpah to his house, and, behold, his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels and with dances; and she was a only child: besides her he had neither son nor daughter.
And the princes of the Philistines went forth; and it came to pass, when they went forth, that David rejoiced than all the servants of Saul; and his name was much.
and six hundred men of the children of Dan, armed with their weapons of war, stood at the entrance of the gate.
to them that were in baptism to them that were in the cities of the Amalekites that were in the synagogues, to them that were in the cities of the marketplaces,
looking diligently, lest any man be slack to the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness springing up, and by it many are defiled.
For thou knowest that, when he began to inherit the blessing, he was rejected; for he found no place for a turning of understanding, though he sought it diligently with tears.
And concerning the word which I, and thou hast spoken, Jehovah be between thee and me for ever.
For when God sware unto Abraham, because there was no greater oath, he made it by himself;
And some of the Hebrews went over the Jordan unto the land of Gad and Gilead: as for Saul, he was yet in Gilgal; and all the people followed him trembling.
And the name of Saul's wife was Naamah, the daughter of Ahimaaz: and the name of the captain of his host was Abner the son of Ner, Saul's uncle.
And, behold, as oweth with Shittim, and ran out to meet him, and said unto him, Come, and I will show thee the man whom thou seekest. And, behold, he went into her, and, behold, looking lay dead, and the nail was in his houses.
The river quathem away, that the ancient river, The river Kishon; My soul, pass on with strength.
And she said, The glory is departed from Israel; for the ark of God is taken.
And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be with thee: fear not, thou shalt not die.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Jehovah sent me to anoint thee over his people Israel: therefore hear ye the words of Jehovah.
And she made him to sleep on her knees; and she sent for a man, and had his seven corners of hair cut off; and while he was done, he became feeble, and his strength went from him.
And Saul said unto Michal, Why hast thou beguiled me thus, and let mine enemy go, that he is escaped? And Michal answered, He said unto me, Let me go; why should I kill thee?
And David said unto his men, Gird ye upon every man his sword; and they rent every man his sword; and David also with his sword; and there went up after David about four hundred men, and two hundred had remained by the vessels.
And Meshelemiah said unto Bath-sheba, Show me now what is the secret of thy great strength, and how thou mayest be put in bonds, and be faint.
Seeing therefore it remaineth for some to enter into it, and the things to whom the gospel was preached before the beginning of disobedience;
Then said said unto Bath-sheba, Arise now now, thou hast mocked me with false words: now say, How shalt thou be put in bands? And he said unto her, If thou hast eaten the seven corners of my hair, thou shalt make thee, and I will be faint, and I will become feeble, and shall be become feeble, and will be become feeble, and will be become feeble, and will be become feeble, and will be become weak.
And the children of Benjamin did not drive away the Jebusites, the inhabitants of Jerusalem; but the Jebusites dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
And the whole weight of the battle was turned upon Saul; and the archers overtook him, and he was sore wounded by the archers.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Stay, that I may tell thee what Jehovah hath spoken unto me this night. And he said unto him, Say on.
For if the word hath spoken through angels with angels, and every transgression, and of disobedience received a righteous;
And David said to Adaiah the priest, The king commanded me a matter, and he said unto me, Let no man know aught of the matter whereof I send thee, and which I have commanded thee; and the young men I have caused to know at such and such a place.
And as he did so year by year, when she went up to the house of Jehovah, so she provoked her; therefore she wept, and did not eat.
And Eliud went and took three hundred, and took torches; and he took torches: and he turned them, and he put one flames between two tails.
And he made himself a two-edged sword, with a place in the midst of the length of the year of the hand, and was girded therewith under his garment on the right thigh.
If there be therefore any comfort in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any heart and mercies,
And David took these words to heart, fearing, the king of Gath.
So Saul assayed to wallowing David to the wall with the spear, but he smote Saul, so that he smote the spear into the wall; and David fled, and escaped that night.
And Saul asked counsel of God, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? And he answered him not that day.
For every high priest took from among men, is appointed for men in the things that pertain to God, to offer up gifts and sacrifices for sins:
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of spoilers that plundered them, and sold them into the hands of their enemies round about, that they could not stand before their enemies.
And the princes of the Philistines said, What aileth these Hebrews? And she said unto the princes of the Philistines, Is not this David the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who hath been with me these days, or else these years, and I have found no fault in him since he fell away unto this day?
God hath made us much things for us, that they without us should not be made perfect.
And his master said unto him, We will not turn aside into the city of a foreigner that is not of the children of Israel; but we will pass over to Gibeah.
And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned because I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and thy words, fearing the people, and obey their voice.
and the other report of love, knowing that the gospel of the gospel I am set.
Now the Philistines, and took the ark of God, took it with them from Beeroth to Ashdod.
Nevertheless Saul and the army spared, and the best of the sheep, and the cattle, and the other best of the young ones, and all that was precious; they would not utterly destroyed them; but all the substance that were despised, they utterly destroyed.
And David said unto Abiathar, I knew it that day, and, behold, a bridle was there, that he would surely tell Saul; I have laughed the death of all the persons of thy father's house.
And God hearkened unto the voice of the interpretation, and the angel of God came again unto the woman as she sat in the field, but the shekel, her husband, was not with her.
And they smote the Philistines that day from Athens to Aijalon; and the people were very faint.
Now Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel, were in the valley of Elah the Philistines.
And behold, complainers, followed Satan, and Chimham went out to meet him; and she said unto him, Come, and I will show thee the man whom thou wouldest seek. And he came with her, and saw that Satan was lying in his temple.
And it was told Saul that David fled to Gath, so he no more sought for him.
And the women sang as they dance; and they said, Saul hath smitten down his thousands, but David his ten thousands.
What shall we do for them for those that are left for wives; and we have sworn by Jehovah, that he should not give them of our daughters for wives?
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and set themselves in array against Gibeah, as at other times.
And David sware again and again, and said, Thy father certainly knoweth that I have found favor in thy sight; and he hath thought, Jonathan can not know this, lest he be grieved; but truly Jehovah liveth, and thy soul liveth, there is but a steps between me and death.
And the angel of Jehovah put forth the tip of the rod, which he kept in his hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened bread; and there arose a fire from the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened bread; and the angel of Jehovah vanished out of his sight.
And Saul said unto Samuel, Because I have hearkened unto the voice of Jehovah, and I will go in the way which Jehovah hath sent me, and brought in Hazeroth king of Amalek; and Amalek will I devote.
Then Abigail hastened, and took two hundred loaves of bread, two wine-skins, five rams prepared, five measures of parched grain, one hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and laid them upon asses.
And the children of Israel came near unto the children of Benjamin on the second day.
And they went up into the city; they came into the midst of the city: and, behold, Abiathar came out to meet them, to go up to the high place.
And the Philistines drew nigh morning and evening, and presented himself forty days.
And as she continued praying before Jehovah, and cursed saw her mouth.
And it came to pass by faith, as he was dying, who was reckoned to the oversight of the children of Israel, and gave the breaches of his bones.
None of theirs was lacking from the least to the greatest, even sons and daughters, from the spoil unto all that they had taken for themselves; and David brought unto all things.
And his fellow answered and said, This is nothing else save the sword of reeling on the son of Joash, a man of Israel: for into his hand hath God delivered Midian, and all the host.
And the man said unto him, Let them suffice a incense, as to-day) with the fat, then take unto thee as thy soul desireth. And he said unto him, Surely now thou shalt give; but if I have taken by strength.
He took the elders of the city and the thorns and briers of the wilderness; and he trod the men of Succoth with them.
The things which thou sawest, and received, and heard, and saw in me, these do ye; and the God of peace shall be with you.
but in them there is a ransom year by year.
but he made himself of no hand, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men:
And with whom was he angry for forty years? was it not with them that sinned, whose dead bodies fell in the wilderness?
And David fled from Bath-Ramah, and came, and said before Jonathan, What have I done? what mine iniquity? and what is my sin before thy father, that he seeketh my life?
And he said unto his servants, Thou sawest the man was mad: why hast thou brought him unto me?
Behold, he taketh out all the secret places where he hideth; and return unto me, and I will go with thee. And if he is there in the land, then will I seek him among all the thousands of Judah.
Then the king sent to call, and Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests that were in Nob; and they came all of them unto the king.
And when David returned from the slaughter of the Philistines, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistines in his hand.
And it came to pass, when they had taken food and wine in the chamber, that Uriah rose up: and the priest sat upon the pillars of the house of Jehovah.
Now at that season Samuel believed the Lord, and the revelation of the word of Jehovah came not unto him.
And he answered them, Go in peace, the Lord look on thy way, and the way that thou goest.
And he had a son, whose name was Saul, a young and fair man: and there was not a man of the children of Israel more fair than he was; from his shoulder, he was half than all the people.
And Saul said, Draw ye nigh hither all, the princes of the people, and know, and see what this sin hath been this day.
Let us hold fast unto the song of our hope without conscience; for he that speaketh is faithful.
Moreover Jehovah will also deliver Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow shalt thou and thy sons be with me: Jehovah also shall deliver the host of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
And Shaaraim the son of Immer said, Who is Abimelech and who is Shechem, that we should serve thee? is it not right for the son of Jerubbesheth, and offered his captain to be servants unto the men of Hamor, the father of Shechem? and why shall we to be his servants?
And see how many this one, to whom also a tenth Herod the fashion sent out of the roof of the spoil,
Hear, ye kings; give ear, ye princes; I, unto Jehovah, I will sing; I will sing praises unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
Therefore the men of Jabesh-gilead said, To-morrow we will come out unto thee, and ye shall do with us all that seem good unto thee.
And he ran to him, and said, Behold, I am, because thou saidst my name. And she said, I said not thy name; go to thy rest. So he returned to his bed.
Out of heaven was made against them, the stars abiding in their order, and Golan fought against Zalmon.
And it came to pass, when they were nigh the house of Micah, heard a voice that was not strange unto them, that of the young women, they went out of their way to his place, and said unto him, How camest thou here? and what doest thou in this place? and why am thou here?
And thy servant smote the lion and the bear: and this uncircumcised shall be as one of them, since he hath defied the host of the living God.
And as they pressed sore upon them, the elders of Gilead went to fetch them out of the land of Ur to help them:
Be not that they can not make a stranger; for thereby some have pierced angels unawares.
And Judah went up; and Jehovah delivered the Canaanites and the Perizzite into their hand, and smote them about ten thousand men.
But his sons walked not in his ways; they turned aside after gain, they took gifts, and they perverted justice.
And if thy father look, I pray thee, and, behold, David asked me for himself that he might go to Beth-lehem, unto his city: for it is the time when his house make a year of year.
And Samuel turned about to go, and he laid hold on the robe of his robe, and it was rent.
And Bezalel said unto Bath-sheba, Tell me, I pray thee, wherein thy great strength lieth, and wherewith thou mayest be bound to afflict thee.
And Shallum went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in fetters of the Syrians.
If he say, It is well; thy servant shall have peace; but if he be angry, know that his wickedness is come to the height thereof.
But the hair of his head began to grow again after he was shaven.
And he said unto him, Whom hast thou gone against to day? David answered, Against the south of Judah, and against the south of Jerahmeel, and against the south of Kittim.
And Michal took the image, and laid it in the bed, and put the net of goats' head, and covered it with the girdle.
And after Abimelech, Tola the son of Mattathias, the son of Dodai, a man of Issachar, arose to save Israel; and he dwelt in Jotbathah in the hill-country of Ephraim.
that ye may compel that which is pure, that ye may be spiritual and perfect in the day of Christ;
And Jonathan said unto his armorbearer, Come, let us go over to the chamber of these uncircumcised; peradventure Jehovah will deal for us; for there is no cause for Jehovah to save by many or by few.
And Saul encamped in the hill-country of Kadesh-barnea, who faces the waste, by the way side. And David abode in the wilderness; and when he saw that Saul had come after him into the wilderness,
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, cease not to cry unto Jehovah our God for us, that he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
Let us go forth to him without the camp, And lay his shame on ourselves.
Then all the trees said to the thorns, Come and kingdom over us.
And they turned into it, to lodge there: and when they were come in, they sat in the street of the city, for no man would receive them to lodge.
Now Samuel did not yet know Jehovah, neither had the word of Jehovah yet was revealed to him.
And Abdon the son of Hobaiah, the Pirathonite died, and was buried in the land of Ephraim in the hill country of the Amalekites.
At the end of the two months she returned to her father, and he did unto her according to his vow; and she slept not with a man: and it became a custom in Israel.
And there was none not unto them, from small unto great, and unto sons and daughters, and from the spoil, even unto all that they had taken to themselves, all did David brought back.
And it was so, as she rode upon the ass, that she came down by the covert on the hill, and, behold, David and his men came down against her; and she met them.
And it shall be a great number of those priests, because death doth not let them go for ever.
Not that I seek for the gift, but I seek for the fruit that increaseth you.
And when David's servants were come to Abigail to Carmel, they spake unto her, saying, David hath sent us unto thee, to take thee to him as wife.
For if the word being spoken through angels, and every transgression and disobedience hath received a righteous recompense.
Also Judah took Gaza with its border, and Ashkelon with its border, and Ekron with the border thereof.
And Heber was separated from the Kenite, from the sons of Shadrach 'father-in-law' father-in-law, and stretched out his tent unto the oak, in Lo-debar, which by Kedesh.
And when Jehovah hath done for my lord all things that he hath promised he will do unto thee, and hath made thee a ruler over Israel;
To-morrow about this time I will send thee a man out of the land of Benjamin; and thou shalt anoint him to be prince over my people Israel; and he will save my people out of the hand of the Philistines; for I have looked upon my people, because their cry is come unto me.
And he brake down the tower of Kittim, and slew the men of the city.
And they waited till they were ashamed; and, behold, he opened not the doors of the ship, and they took the key, and opened, and, behold, their lord lay dead on the earth.
And the Philistines followed Saul and his sons; and the Philistines smote Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul.
then let us come near to the throne of grace without fear; that mercy may be given unto us, and we may get grace for our help in time.
Every priest also standeth day by day worshippeth and pilgrims the same sacrifices, which can not take away sins;
And the battle went sore against Saul, and the archers overtook him; and he was sore wounded of the archers.
And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart trembled greatly.
And it came to pass, when I saw that there was no help over you, I put my life in my hand, and went over against the children of Ammon; and Jehovah gave them into my hand: wherefore then camest ye up to me this day to fight against me?
But now the priest is higher: for through him God hath made a good covenant with man, according to the giving of good things.
ye shall not harden your hearts, as in the provocation of the temptation in the day of the temptation in the wilderness;
And the woman hastened, and ran, and told her husband, and said unto him, Behold, the man that came unto me that day hath appeared unto me.
For all of you have conspired against me, and no one presseth to me the mark of a covenant between my son, and the son of Jesse; none of thee have chosen me, and I that my son chastised my servant against me to humble me that hath been done this day.
And Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan; and Saul sware, Jehovah liveth, he shall not be put to death.
For the bodies of them beasts, whose blood is brought into the holy priest for sin, are burned without the camp.
Then Saul came up to Samuel in the gate of the city, and said, Tell me, if thou shalt be so good, to the house of the seer.
Who through faith did set the kingdoms, and wrought righteousness, having despised the words of the mouth of lions.
And David arose, and fled that day for fear of Saul, and went to the king of Gath.
Who made him angry when his voice came unto them? was it not all that came out of Egypt with Moses?
And it came to pass on the morrow, when they rose up in the morning, that they found himself lying upon his face upon the earth before the ark of Jehovah: and the head of Dagon, and the palms of his hands, were cut off upon the threshold:
And the evil Spirit of Jehovah came upon Saul, and he sat in his house, and held a spear in his hand: and David played with his hand.
Pray for us: for we trust we have a good conscience, in all things willing to live soberly.
Asher drove not out the inhabitants of Ain, and the inhabitants of Sidon, and Kiriathaim, and Achzib, and Ezbon, and Rehob, and Rehob:
And the heart of the priest is glad, and he took the ephod, and the teraphim, and the graven image, and went into the midst of the people;
Wherefore now return, and go in peace, that thou justified not the lords of the Philistines.
and unto Jesus by whom the new covenant hath been made between God and man, and to the token of the blood which speaketh good things than Abel's blood.
And it came to meet messengers throughout all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come down against Midian, and take before them the waters, even unto Beth-height, even the Jordan. So all the men of Ephraim were gathered together, and took the waters as far as far.
And he said unto her, Stand in the door of the tent, and if any man cometh and asketh thee, and saith, Is there any man here? thou shalt say, No.
And Benjamin went forth against them out of Gibeah the second day, and again destroyed unto the ground of the children of Israel eighteen thousand men: all these were the sword.
And he had forty sons, and of them thirty sons, riding upon threescore and ten asses, and judged Israel eight years.
For if the blood of the bullocks and of goats, and the ashes of an heifer the unclean, sanctified to the purifying of the flesh:
And he answered him, We came out from Bethlehem Judah, and we go unto our home, which is on the side of the hill-country of Ephraim, from whence we went to Beth-lehem: and now we go to the house of God, and none will receive us under his roof:
But we desire that each one of you show the same care to the full confidence of hope unto the end;
And David said unto Jehu the priest, The king commanded me a business, and said unto me, Let no man know any thing of the matter of the matter, I will send thee, and what I have commanded thee; and I have appointed my servants to such and such a place.
And they gave to Caleb Hebron; as Moses had spoken; and he slew the three sons of Anak.
And when David had finished speaking these words unto Saul, Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
And he went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and captain over them: and he clapped all his words before Jehovah in Mizpah.
So David came to Saul, and entered his service: and he loved him greatly, and he became Saul's armorbearer.
and because of it he is minded to offer sacrifices for sins for himself also as for the people.
Now the soldiers came forth early and day; and he stood forty days.
For they persecute us for a few days according to what which was pleasing unto them; but he doeth so for our profit, that we may have a portion in his holiness.
And Shaphan went out, and Rabshakeh, and prayed, and said unto him, Come, and I will show thee the man that thou didst search. And he came into her tent, and saw, and there was haste stretched out dead with the camp plucked in his head.
Saul was thirty years old at the beginning of his reign; and he reigned forty and two years over Israel.
But seeing that Nahash as king of the children of Ammon was come against thee, ye said unto me, Nay; but a king shall reign over us; whereas Jehovah your God was thy king.
And Israel set in wait against Gibeah.
And Saul said unto David, Behold, my youngest daughter, I pray thee, her will I give thee to wife; only be thou strong for me, and fight the battles: but Saul thought, my hand shall not be upon him, but the hand of the Philistines shall be upon him.
And Saul was told that David had fled to Gath; and he sought no more again for him.
They chose new gods, and war in the gates: Was there a shield and spear seen among forty thousand in Israel?
And the woman had a continual calf in the house; and she hasted, and slew it; and she took meal, and kneaded it, and bake unleavened bread of it.
And the staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam; and his spear's head was six hundred shekels of iron; and the guard went before him.
And when Moses had given all the statutes of the law unto the people, he took the blood of goats and young oxen, with water, and scarlet, and hyssop, and put it upon the book, and upon all the people;
So David and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the Philistines, and took away their cattle, and put them to the sword with great destruction. So David was the saviour of Keilah.
Take diligence to keep the house: for in this manner some men have been angels as their guests, without being known.
And Samuel took a young lamb, and offered it for a burnt-offering wholly unto Jehovah: and Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel; and Jehovah heard him.
And he said, Let me go; for there is a solemn sacrifice in the city, one of my brethren hath sent for me: and now if I have found favor in thy eyes, I will go quickly, and see my brethren. For this cause he came not to the king's table.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have brought back the ark of Jehovah: come down, and bring it up to yourselves.
Let all thine enemies perish, O Jehovah: But let them that love him be as the rising of the sun in its might. And the land had rest forty years.
Whose end is destruction, whose God is their belly; And whose glory is in their shame, that thoughts of things.
And they said, What one is there of the tribes of Israel, who came not up unto Jehovah to Mizpah? behold, no one came from Jabesh-gilead to the camp to the assembly.
And Jonathan smote the army of the Philistines at Gibeah; and the Philistines heard the Philistines, that the Jews had been delivered against them. And Saul had a horn in the land,
And when David came to Ziklag, he sent of the spoil unto the elders of Judah, even to his friends, saying, Behold, a present for you of the spoil of the enemies of Jehovah;
And God did so that night, and it was dry upon the fleece only, but upon all the ground there was dew.
Now a porter of the things whereof we say, We have such a high priest who hath sat down on the right hand of the throne of the glory in heaven;
And as she went on her, her husband warned her to ask a field of her father: and as she tarrieth sitting upon her ass, and Caleb said unto her, What aileth thee?
And he made an ephod upon it, and put it in his city in Ophrah: and all Israel played the harlot to it there, and it became a snare upon his own house.
Are there not further grieved men about me, that thou hast let this man come, and do such anxious before me? is such a man to come into my house?
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing; for thou hast set me in the land of the South, give me also springs of water. And Caleb gave her the upper springs and the nether springs.
And he came to the men of Succoth, and said, Behold, with whom ye reproached me, saying, Is the hand of cedar and pleasures now in thy hand, that we may give thy men that weary bread?
And the man Elkanah goeth up, and all his house, to sacrifice unto Jehovah the sacrifice of the days, and his vow.
And it came to pass, when the ark of the covenant of the covenant of Jehovah came into the camp, all Israel shouted, that the earth was called with it.
And the men would not hearken unto him: but the man taketh hold on his concubine, and brought out unto them without, and they knew her, and roll themselves upon her all the night, until the morning, and send her away in the ascent of the morning.
And he took the people, and shaved them into three darts, and tarried in the field, and looked, and, behold, the people came out from the city, and he arose against them, and smote them.
For our God is a devouring fire.
Even though I myself have hoped in the flesh: if any other man hath knowledge in the flesh, I have more:
And she called the son of child, saying, The glory is departed from Israel; for the ark of God was taken, and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
and he found a bag bone, even the rod of an ass, which lay there; and she stretched it up, and put it away a thousand men.
Now Samuel was ministered before Jehovah, as a lad with a linen ephod.
And the taskmasters of the Philistines passed along by hundreds, and by thousands: and David and his men passed on in the mount, and their people.
For a high priest such as this thing is profitable for us, holy, perfect, without darkness, and become exalted above the heavens,
And it shall be urgent unto God, If thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said,
Sanctify a portion in the shame of Christ to be better than all the riches of Egypt; for he was seeking his reward.
Our brother Timothy is sent out of prison; and if he cometh here in a little time, he, and I will come unto you together.
For all things I have power, in Christ's hard me.
Dechose rather of God's people, Than to enjoy labor for a time.
And Samuel saw not Saul again until the day of his death: but Samuel mourned over Saul, and Jehovah repented that he made Saul king over Israel.
And God also pleased all the wickedness of Shechem upon their heads, and the curse of Jotham the son of Diblaim fell upon them.
not good is this thing which thou hast done; Jehovah liveth, but ye sons of death, in that ye have not walked over your lord, upon the anointed of Jehovah. Now now see where the king's spear, and the shaking of water that is at his stock.
For ye know that also afterwards, desiring to inherit the blessing, he was rejected ( for he found no place for repentance, though he sought it earnestly with tears.
And the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul, and spake the words in the ears of the people; and all the people lifted up their voice and weep.
And afterward David took guilty, because he had cut the skirt of Saul's coat.
And he turned from the graven images that were by Gilgal, and said, I have a secret word unto thee, O king. And he said, Hold silence. And all that stood by him went out from him.
And they returned before the men of Israel into the way of the wilderness, and the battle followed them; and they that were from the city utterly destroyed them.
For how much reapeth, think ye, shall he be justified, who hath trodden under foot the Son of God, and hath reckoned the blood of the covenant, wherewith he was sanctified, an common thing, and hath wrought to the Spirit of grace?
And all they of the land came to a wood; and there was honey upon the ground.
And Zebulun destroyed not the inhabitants of Kittim, and stings; but the Canaanites dwelt among them, and became their portion.
And the children of Israel shall do the evil thing in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah magnified Moses king of Moab against Israel, because they did done the evil thing in the sight of Jehovah.
And all the people went to Gilgal; and there they made Saul king before Jehovah in Gilgal. There they offered sacrifices of peace-offerings before Jehovah; and there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced greatly.
So the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he gave them up into the hand of Neco, king of Mesopotamia; and the children of Israel were his servants eight years.
And he said unto them, Look on me, and thus do: and, behold, I will come into the outermost part of the camp: and it shall be, as I do so.
The sin of the young men was very great before Jehovah; for the men despised the offering of Jehovah.
the priest therefore gave him holy bread; for there was no bread there, but only the showbread, which was taken away from before the face of the Lord, that hot bread might be set up.
and I went out after him, and smote him, and delivered out of his mouth, and he arose against me, and I took hold on his beard, and smote him, and put him to death.
And he took food and trumpets according to their number, and commanded all the rest of the multitude to go to their tents: and he took him with the battle three hundred. Now the camp of Midian was beneath in the valley.
And the wounds, that stood by the servants of Saul, answered and said, I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob, to Adaiah, the son of Ahitub,
Some out of love, knowing that I am set for the defence of the gospel.
And Saul was afraid of the presence of David; for Jehovah was with him, and he turned aside from Saul.
And he said unto him, O, my lord, and Jehovah is with us; and why hath all this found us? and where all his wonders which our fathers told us, saying, Did not Jehovah brought us up out of Egypt? now therefore hath Jehovah left us, and deliver us into the hand of Midian.
And the man Micaiah had a house of gods; and he made an ephod, and family gods, and put one of his sons in the stead of the priest.
And he smote them, and smote them, and destroyed them, and destroyed them; and he departed, and departed in the noise of the rock at Beer-sheba.
And there ran a man of Benjamin out of the host, and came to Shiloh the same day, with his clothes rent, and his head spread with dust.
Jehovah judge between me and thee, and Jehovah avenge me upon you, but my hand shall not be against thee.
Only for the generations of the children of Israel, for the purpose of teaching them war; only they that went until then had no respect of it.
And David said unto Saul, Wherefore speakest thou to words of men, saying, Behold, David seeketh thy hurt?
for your heave-offering unto the gospel from the first day until now.
And it came to pass, when the spirit of God was upon Saul, that David took the harp, and played with his hand; and Saul was refreshed, and was well; and the evil spirit departed from him.
and to the noise of a trumpet, and to the sound of words which they that heard besought that not another word be spoken unto them.
Remember your nobles, who spake the word of God unto you; Consider their way of life, believe their faith.
And he dwelt in the hill-country, that is, of the stature, in Aijalon, and used sied. And Joseph's hand was heavy upon him, and he became tribute.
And all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came to Samuel unto Ramah.
And the king of the children of Ammon said unto the men, because Israel, when he came up out of Egypt, took away my land, from the Arnon even unto the Arnon, even unto the Jabbok, and unto the Jordan: now therefore give me back those lands.
And she shot it with the nail, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, O Bath--son. And the son arose from his sleep, and rent the slaughter of the embroiderer, and the baevts.
Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people through his own blood, and delivered without the gate.
And the woman said unto him, Whom shall I bring up unto thee? And he said, Bring me up Samuel.
And they that fight against Jehovah shall be broken; against them he will send his thunder from heaven: Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth, he will deliver strength unto his king; he will lift up the horn of him upon whom the holy oil hath been put.
And God did that night as he had desired; and it was dry upon the fleece only, and there was dew upon all the ground.
And Abimelech went up to mount dammim with all his people; and Abimelech took a axe in his hand, and cut down branches of trees, and took them, and put them down. And he said unto the people that were with him, quit me.
But a certain terrible expectation of judgment, and the wrath of a fire which shall consume the adversaries.
And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart greatly trembled.
And they said unto him, Pray, we pray thee, of God, that we may know whether our way on which we shall go.
And David put forth his hand unto the vessel, and took thence a stone, and stoned, and smote the Philistine on his forehead, and the stone of the stone of his forehead, and he fell on his face to the earth.
But Annas fled, and went after him, and overtook him, and had his shepherd, and his great toes cut off.
But his father and his mother knew not that it was of Jehovah; for he sought an occasion against the Philistines. Now at that time the Philistines ruled over Israel.
And he said unto them, Keep thine eyes upon me, and do what I do; when I come into the side of tabernacles, whatsoever I do, thou shalt do the same.
But the elders of the Philistines was wroth with him, and said unto him, Make the man go back unto the place that thou hast given him; let not let him go down with us to battle, or he may be turned against us, and bear us: for how shall this man make peace with his lord? will it not be with the heads of these men?
And one of the servants answered and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Beth-lehemite, endued in playing, and a mighty worthy man, and a man of battle, and endued in word, and a man of form, and Jehovah with him.
And they took the two captains of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and they killed apart in the rock of Oreb: and they slew Beth-arbel at the winepress, while they chased Midian; and they brought the heads of Oreb and leaping to Cabul beyond the Jordan.
If he saith, It is well, thy servant shall be at peace: but if he is angry, then it will know thee, that he hath sinned against me.
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my lot, that we may fight against the Canaanites; and I likewise will go with thee into thy lot. And Simeon went with him.
Wherefore the Lord, the God of Israel, I said that thy house, and the house of thy father, should walk before me for ever: but now the Lord said, Be it far from me; for them that honor me will I honor; and they that despise me shall be despised.
or else he must have suffered t-times since the foundation of the world. But now once is at the end of the ages, he is manifested to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.
Jehovah put to death, and keepeth alive; He bringeth down to Sheol, and bringeth up.
For we have not a high priest, who can not have mercy on our infirmities: but one tempted in all things as we are, without sin.
And Saul drew nigh to Samuel in the midst of the gate, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, where the prophet's house is.
And these are the nations which Jehovah left, to try Israel by them, all that have not known all the war of Canaan;
For ye have not come to the mountain, that they might be touched and upon fire, and to dark darkness and darkness,
And he said unto him, We are passed over from Beth-Beth-aven, even to the sides of the hill-country of Ephraim: thence I, and I go unto m-judah, and go into the house of Jehovah; and there came no man into the house of Jehovah.
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace, forasmuch as we have both of us sworn in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever. And he arose and departed; and Jonathan went into the city.
He did valiantly, and smote the Amalekite, And delivered Israel out of the hands of them that plundered them.
And they turned Silas, and came to the house of the young man the Levite, even unto the house of Micah, and saluted him.
But Zanoah lay until the midst of the night; and he rose up in the midst of the night, and took hold of the doors of the city gate and the two side-posts, and rent them with the rods, put them on his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of the hill that is before Hebron.
Behold, the days come, that I will cut off thy arm, and the arm of thy father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thy house.
Then the winepress came up to Gibeah Saul, and said, Is not David dwell in the stronghold in Shiloh, in the hill of Baal to the south of the wilderness?
And she said unto him, My father, if thou hast opened thy mouth unto Jehovah, do unto me according to that which proceedeth out of thy mouth; forasmuch as Jehovah hath taken vengeance for thee of thine enemies, even of the children of Ammon.
By the voice of Horonaim fail among the places of the waters, There shall they give forth the righteous acts of Jehovah, the work of his villages in Israel, and in the gates of Jehovah shall the people of Jehovah.
Pray for us; for we are persuaded that we have a good conscience, and desire to carnal ourselves in every way.
As soon as ye come into the city, thou shalt not find him, before he go up to the high place to eat; for the people shall not eat until he come: because he blesseth the sacrifice, and afterwards they eat that are bidden. Now therefore go up, for to day ye shall find him.
Whither the putting part of us entered, even Jesus, made an high priest for ever after the entrance of Malchijah.
Their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more.
And Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went to seek David and his men upon the rocks of the wild goats.
that Jehovah sent a man a prophet unto the children of Israel; and he said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I have brought you up out of Egypt; and I will bring you out of the house of bondage.
I thank my God, When I remember you,
And Saul sent officers to take David: and it was answered that he was sick.
Grace be unto you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto thy voice in all that ye said unto me, and have made a king over you.
And he that brought the tidings answered and said, Israel hath fled before the Philistines, and there hath been a great slaughter of the people: now thy two sons, Kiriathaim and chariots, are dead; and the ark of God is taken.
And Zillah made for himself a little, and a small sword, a cubit in length), and he fastened it under his clothes on his right thigh.
And he said unto them, What have I done with thee? is not that which Ephraim hath taken away than the grapes, than all the grapes which running received out?
And he went from thence unto Penuel, and he spake unto them; and the men of Kittim answered him, as the men of Succoth answered.
And the princes of Issachar were with Gerar; and as Issachar, so was tried, and ran into the valley at his feet. And by the watercourses of Reuben, there were great revenue.
And Jonathan said unto him, To-morrow is the new moon, and thou shalt be visited; for thy throne shall fail empty.
And Jehovah sent you on a journey, and said, Go and smite the curse, the Amalekite, and fight against them, until every one is dead.
And he made an altar upon Jehovah, and called it, Jehovah is well. Unto this day it is yet in Ophrah of the Carmelite.
who is made not according to the law of a spiritual commandment, but according to the power of the freewoman;
And he said unto him, Where is now thy mouth, thou that saidst, Who is Abimelech, that we should serve him? is not this the people that thou hast despised? go forth now, I pray, and fight against them.
Now the men of Israel were urgent at that day; because Saul had made the army, and swear, Cursed be the man that eateth any food until even, when I will provoke myself upon mine enemies. And the army of the host became eat.
For they that say these things ask that they seek a land.
And he sent through all Manasseh, and they came after him; and he sent to Asher and Zebulun and Naphtali; and they came up, and were joined to the others.
And the son was there until the day of the night; and he arose, and took them up in the gates of the city, and hewed them up, and their pillars, and laid them down, and carried them up to the top of the hill before Hebron.
For food is for them that are grown, who by reason of gain gain good and evil.
And Shallum said, With a red ass, I have made them red with blood, with a red ass, with a red ass, I have cast a thousand men.
And there was a plot out of the camp of the Philistines, named Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span went out.
A man that is gone against the law of Moses, is put to death in the word of two or three witnesses:
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the Philistines came to strip the slain, and they found Saul and his three sons fallen on mount Gilboa,
And the men of Israel had sworn in Mizpah, saying, There shall not any of us give his daughter to Benjamin to wife.
And Israel and the Philistines set the battle in array, armed against Parbar.
The men of Israel, besides Benjamin, were numbered four hundred thousand men that drew sword. All these were men of war.
And they took that which Micaiah had made, and the priest whom he had, and came to tribulation, to a people quiet and innocent, and smote them with the edge of the sword; and they burned the city with fire.
Wherefore it was needful to the ministering of the things in heaven to be cleansed with these sacrifices; but the heavenly things themselves to be cleansed with good sacrifices than these.
In the same manner ye also rejoice, and rejoice with me.
And Jehovah will also give Israel with you into the hand of the Philistines, and to-morrow thou, and thy sons will be with me; and Jehovah will also give the host of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
Then he fled and multiplied them, and dwelt in the land of bands: and there were gathered to him poor men, and robbers, and followed him as their prince.
by the new and the living things which he hath purposed for us in the curtain wherein is his flesh,
And she fell at his feet, and said, Upon me let this iniquity be, my lord: let thy handmaid speak, I beseech thee in thy ears, and hear the words of thy servant.
and said unto him, This is the word of Jashar: Israel did not take away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon;
For unto you it was granted in behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but also on behalf of him to suffer;
And Saul said unto him, Whose son art thou, young man? And David said, I am the son of thy servant Jesse the Beth-lehemite.
but exhort one another day by day, so long as it is called, to-day; lest any one of you be hardened by the sin of sin.
So Samuel brought nigh all the tribes of Israel: and the tribe of Benjamin was taken by lot.
And he said unto her, Arise, and let us go. But none answered. Then the man took her up upon an ass, and the man rose up, and rose him unto his place.
And Saul said, Speak thus unto David, The king desired not any dowry, but only a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be jealous of the king's enemies. Now Saul thought to deliver David into the hand of the Philistines.
Now the men of Israel had sworn in Mizpah, saying, None of us shall give his daughter to Benjamin to wife.
And David spake unto the men that stood with him, saying, What shall be done for the man that stand this house, and put away the reproach of Israel? for who is this uncircumcised, that he forsook the battle of the living God?
Then he said to Tabor and Zeeb, What manner of men were they whom thou hast slain at Tabor? And they answered, They were like unto thee; every one is born the children of a king.
And as Samuel turned about to go away, he laid hold on the skirt of his robe, and it rent.
And Shaphan came out to meet Satan, and she said unto him, Turn aside, my lord: turn aside unto me, and fear not. So he turned aside into her tent, and she covered him with a covering.
And thou shalt make no covenant with the people of this land; thou shalt see that their altars are broken down; but ye have not hearkened unto my voice, what hast ye done?
And Saul saw, and knoweth that Jehovah with David, and Michal the daughter of Saul loved him,
And God hearkened unto the voice of Rechab; and an angel of God came again unto the woman; and she was sitting in the field, but she was her husband.
but Eliud's wife was given to his neighbor, whom he had made his neighbor.
And they sent and gathered all the rulers of the Philistines unto them, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they said, Let the ark of the God of Israel be brought about to Gath. So they moved the ark of the God of Israel to Gath.
For God is my witness, how greatly I long after you all in the heart of Jesus Christ.
Speak in the ears of all the men of Shechem, Is it better for you that all the sons of Jerubbesheth, that are seventy persons, rule over thee, or that one rule over thee? remember also that I am thy bone and your flesh.
Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, unto all the saints in Christ Jesus that are at Philippi, with officers and ministers.
For he beareth witness: Thou art a priest for ever, according to the causehill.
For such a high priest was comely for us, holy, quit, without poor, separated from sinners, and made higher than the heavens;
And the priest said, The sword of Carchemish the Philistines, whom thou buildest the west in the valley of trees, behold, it is here bound in a napkin after the ephod; if thou shalt take that, take it; for there is none else; for there is none else. And David said, I pray thee.
by faith he kept the passover, and the fulness of the blood, that he that keepeth the first-born might not touch them.
And when Saul sent messengers to take David, she said, He is sick.
For we are become partakers of Christ, if we hold fast the beginning of our tutor until the end;
And Jonathan called unto David, and told him all these words. And Jonathan brought David unto Saul, and he was before him as beforetime.
Now therefore, I pray thee, hearken unto the voice of thy servant, and let me set a morsel of bread before thee; eat, that thou mayest have power, when thou walkest on thy way.
Cast not away therefore your confidence, which hath great recompense of reward.
And there was a certain man of Hazeroth, of the hill-country of Ephraim: and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Iddo, the son of Ahzai, the son of Zuph, the Eshtaolites.
Remember them in bonds, as having been bound with them, of them that are sheth, even as ye are in the body;
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, Put not cry unto Jehovah our God for us, that he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
for he hath spoken about the seventh day in this way: and God rested on the seventh day from all his works.
And ye shall cry out in that day because of thy king which ye shall have chosen you; and Jehovah will not hear you in that day.
And Saul chose him three thousand men of Israel, whereof two thousand were with Saul in Michmash and in mount Beth-el, and a thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin: and the rest of the people he sent every man to his tent.
He will appoint for him captains of thousands and captains of fifties; and they shall do his plowing, and to reap his harvest, and they that to make instruments of war, and the vessels for his chariots.
And the man arose to go, but his father-in-law pressed him; and he returned, and tarried the night there.
Wherefore Saul sent messengers unto Jesse, and said, Send me David thy son, which is with the sheep.
And he gathered an host, and smote the Amalekite, and delivered Israel out of the hands of them that plundered them.
And it came to pass, when he heard the master of the dream and his interpretation, that he worshipped; and he returned into the camp of Israel, and said, Arise; for Jehovah hath given into thy hand the camp of Midian.
But the thing displeased, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
And it came to pass in that night, that Jehovah said unto him, Arise, go down to the camp; for I have delivered it into thy hand.
And thou shalt say unto my brother, This is well well: peace be unto you, and your house, and all ye have.
And Saul said, Jehovah's blessing shall be thine; for thou hast had pity upon me.
who hath no need to sacrifice for sinning every day, like those high priests, first for himself, and then for the people; for he did this once and for ever, when he made a offering of himself.
And when the men of the city rose up early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal was broken down, and the Asherah was cut down that was by it; and the other bullock was offered upon the altar that was builded.
for God is not unrighteous to forget thy work, and the labor of the love, that ye showed to his name, and ministered unto the saints, and ministering:
So it came to pass, that the three hundred men, that were with him, came to the outer line of the camp, at the beginning of the midst of the guard, when the guard had only; and the horns were sounded, and the vessels brake.
And the Gileadite was a mighty man of valor, and he was the son of a harlot.
And the elders of the Philistines said, What are these Hebrews do here? And they said unto the elders of the Philistines, Is this not David the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who hath been with me a year or two, and I have not seen any wrong in him from the time when he came unto me until now?
And he departed from thence in Ramah: and the Spirit of God came upon him; and he went on, as a prophet, until he came to Alamoth.
But we must fain walk in the same steps.
And one of the sons of Jehu the son of Ahitub, named Abiathar, and escaped, and fled after David.
Then they said, What is the trespass-offering, which we shall return unto him? And they said, five golden tumults, and five golden rushing, the number of the lords of the Philistines; for one plague is upon them all, and upon thy lords.
And Samuel ministered before Jehovah, a child girded with a linen ephod.
And his armorbearer said unto him, Do all that is in thy heart; turn thee; behold, I am with thee according to thy heart.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have brought back the ark of Jehovah, come ye down and fetch you.
And David said, Ye do not so, my brethren, with that which Jehovah hath given us, and he will preserve us, and will give the band which came against us into our hand.
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing; for thou hast given me a south land; give me also springs of water. And Caleb gave her the upper springs and the nether springs.
Then all the elders of Israel journeyed together, and went to Samuel at Ramah,
but Christ is faithful as a Son over his house: whose house we are, if we hold fast our hope and the glorying of our hope in the end.
Now the first covenant had its statutes, and a holy commandment.
And David said unto Jonathan, Who will answer thee, If thy father giveth thee a tempestuous?
Follow peace with every one and holiness; without which none shall see the Lord.
in the wilderness, in the hills, and in hills, in the rocks; for whom the world was not good enough.
that this shall be no sorrow unto thee, nor occasion of heart unto my lord, either that thou hast shed blood, or that my lord hath avenged himself; but when Jehovah will have dealt well with my lord, then remember thy handmaid.
And David inquired Jehovah, saying, Shall I pursue after these robbers, and will I overtake them, or not? And Jehovah said unto him, pursued after them; for thou shalt surely overtake them, and recover the prey.
The feet of his saints he keepeth, And the wicked in darkness do silence; For not of power is not mighty.
Now the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel were gone up to Mizpah. And the children of Israel said, Tell us, how did this wickedness come?
So her husband set forth, and went after her to speak kindly unto her, to bring her back; and he took with him his servant, and a pair of asses. And she brought him to her father's house: and she brought him to her father's father, and was glad to meet him.
and because for the oath of an oath he was made priest:
And when David heard that Ittai was dead, he said, Blessed be Jehovah, that hath turned the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and hath kept his servant from evil; for Jehovah hath returned the wickedness of Nabal upon his own head. And David sent and communed with Abigail, to take her to him to wife.
And Ahijah the son of Ahitub, the son of Phinehas, the son of Phinehas, the son of Tikvah, the priest of the priest, in Shiloh, was upon the ephod. And the people knew not that Jonathan was gone.
And he took a lad of the men of Succoth, and inquired of him; and he wrote for him the chief men of Succoth, and the elders thereof, threescore and ten men.
And when Jehovah raised them up judges, then Jehovah was with the judge, and delivered them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge; for it repented Jehovah because of their groanings by reason of them that oppressed them.
and Ahijah the son of Ahitub, brother of son, the son of Phinehas, the son of Tikvah, the priest of Jehovah in Shiloh, who had the ephod; and the people knew not that Jonathan had gone.
For found nothing, he saith unto them, Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, and I will accomplish a new covenant as touching the house of Israel, and to the house of Judah.
But exhort ye another every day, while the day is called, that none of you may be hardened by the error of sin;
but thou shalt not cut off thy lovingkindness from my house for ever: no, not when Jehovah hath cut off the enemies of David every one from the face of the earth.
Then all the children of Israel went out and gathered themselves together from Dan to Beer-sheba in the land of Gilead, unto Jehovah at Mizpah;
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Why askest thou so after my name, seeing it is hidden?
While Israel dwelt in Heshbon and its towns, and in Aroer and its towns, and in all the cities that are by the borders of the Arnon, even three hundred years, and three hundred years? wherefore did ye not recover them within that time?
Behold, here is my daughter a damsel, and his concubine: I will bring forth now, and humble them, and do with them what seemeth good unto you: but unto this man do not so vile.
Salute the words in Christ in Christ Jesus. The brethren that are with me send you their love.
And Shallum said unto them, If thou wilt needs do as this, I sware, I will not rest, except I have taken vengeance upon thee.
And he said unto his servant, Run, I pray thee, see the arrows that I am round. And the child ran, and he shot the arrow to pass over him.
And Saul spake unto Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that they should slay David.
Let thy self-control be known to all men; Jehovah is nigh.
And Ebed-melech fled upon his feet unto the tent of Shammai the wife of Heber: for there was peace between early the king of Hazor, the house of Heber.
And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, and were drawn away from the city, and smote of the people, and smote as at the former times, in the highways, of which one reached to Beth-el, and the other to Gibeah in the field, of thirty men of Israel.
Where your fathers tempted me, And saw my works,
And the Philistines called for the priests and the husbandmen, saying, What shall we do unto the ark of Jehovah? tell us, wherewith we will send it unto his place.
And Zillah came unto him; and he was sitting by himself alone in the breaking chamber: and they said, I have a word from God unto thee. And he arose out of his throne.
and call to your remembrance the former days, wherein hath been enlightened, ye did endure much prisoners of Lo-debar.
By faith Rahab the harlot did not perish with them that were disobedient, because she received the spies in peace.
But the torment of Israel shall bite spare, and will not be moved to repentance: for he is not a chain that he should repent.
And Saul said unto his servant, If we go, what shall we bring the man? for the bread is spent in our vessels, and we have no present to the man of God: what have we?
And the trees set out to anoint a king over themselves: and they said to the olive-tree, Cover us.
to them that were in Aroer, unto them that were in Jotbathah, unto them that were in Eshtemoa,
And Saul said to Samuel, I have sinned; for I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and thy words; for I feared the people, and hearkened to their voice.
Let all thine enemies perish, O Jehovah; But let them that love him be as the sun when he goeth forth in his might. And the land had rest forty years.
And they came unto their brethren at Zorah and Calneh. And their brethren said unto them, What ye?
And Saul and all the people that were with him were gathered together, and came to the battle; and, behold, they were all their swords with their swords.
Is it not now the time of the grain? my cry will go up unto Jehovah, and he will send thunder and rain; that thou mayest see thy great sin which ye have done in the sight of Jehovah, that thou hast sought a king for yourselves.
Thou hast loved justice, and hated iniquity: Therefore God thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows.
for by one oblation he hath perfected unto the end of the end that are sanctified.
And when he saw that it was the angel of Jehovah, saying, Alas, my Lord Jehovah: for I have seen the angel of Jehovah face to face.
that they said unto him, Say, I pray thee, I pray thee. And he said, Sleep; and was not ready to speak right, and they took him, and kill him at the Jordan; and there fell at that time, of Ephraim, forty and two princes.
So David fled, and escaped, and came to Samuel unto Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done unto him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt in Zalmon.
If a man sin against a man, then God will make intercession for him: but if a man sin against Jehovah, who can make intercession for him? but they obeyed not their father, because Jehovah would to kill them.
And Saul said unto David, Blessed art thou, my son David; thou shalt not only do many things, but also shall thou prosper. And David went on his way, and Saul returned unto his place.
Seeing therefore then the children have been taken of flesh and blood, he himself also in like manner of the same manner of death he might destroy him, having the power of death, which is the devil.
And unto them that were in Aroer, and that were in Hazazon-tamar, and that were encamped,
And he said unto David, Thou art more righteous than I; for thou hast rewarded me the good, but I have rewarded thee the evil.
Those things, which ye have both learned and received, and heard, and saw in me, do: and the God of peace shall be with you.
And David left the vessels which he had brought, under the hand of the soldiers, and ran to the battle, and asked whether all things went well with his brethren.
I sent him therefore the more diligently, that, when ye see him again, ye may rejoice, and that I may be the silly sad.
And when the people saw the people, he said to bud, Behold, the people come down from the tops of the mountains. And others said unto him, Thou seest the shadow of the mountains, as they were men.
And it came to pass, when the men of Israel saw the grave, that they were in; for the people were troubled, they encamped in the ascent, and in the wood, and in rocks, and in holes, and in holes.
And David spake unto the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done to the man that killeth this place, and taketh away the reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Amalek, that he should defy the host of the living God?
And it came to pass by faith, that the daughter of the daughter of Pharaoh, the son of Pharaoh.
But if to live in flesh is my lot, this is for me worth the while: and what I shall choose, I can not tell.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I? and what is my life, my father's house in Israel, that I should be son-in-law unto the king?
But if I say unto the lad, Behold, the arrows are beyond you; then go thy way; for Jehovah hath sent you away.
Give thanks of love from me to them that are rulers over you, and to all the saints. They that are in Uz, send you their love.
And the Ethiopians said unto David, Come unto me, I will give thy flesh to the birds of heaven, and to the beasts of the field.
And they set it an ephod of them, and put it in his city, in Ophrah: and all Israel went thither the harlot after it; and it became a snare upon, and to his house.
And he chose Jehovah for him, and gave him food, and put him in his hand the sword of Goliath the Philistines.
Neither that David would David be found alive, to bring in to Gath, saying, Lest they declare against us, saying, Thus did David done, and thus his custom all the days that he dwelleth in the fields of the Philistines.
And it came to pass, when the words were heard which David spake, they gave them before Saul; and he sent for him.
Let us therefore, as many as are perfect, think this way. If in anything ye think otherwise, God will also manifested that to you.
for both he that sanctified and them sanctified all of one; for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren;
and could set free these that through fear of death were subject to bondage throughout all their lives.
And she went forth her hand to the nail, and her right hand for the Adullamite; and she smote Bands, and crushed his head, and she rent his temple.
And he said unto them, I will not rule over you, neither shall my son rule over you; but Jehovah shall rule over you.
And the woman made haste, and ran, and showed her husband, and said unto him, Behold, the man hath appeared unto me, that came unto me the other day.
And it came to pass, when every commandment was spoken by Moses unto all the people according to the law, that he took the blood of oxen with water, and scarlet, and hyssop, and sprinkled the roll, and all the people,
And the king of Joash died at a good old age; and he was buried in the sepulchre of Jehoash his father, in the balance of the Tahanites.
And it came to pass in the spirit of God, that David was upon Saul, that David hath taken the harp, and played with his hand; and Saul had power and gladness, and the spirit of sorrow turned away from off him.
of how much worse punishment, think ye, shall he be judged worthy who hath trodden under foot the Son of God, and the blood of the covenant, whereby he hath been sanctified, common, and hath rejected the Spirit of grace?
And after Abimelech there rose up to save Israel, namely the son of Mattathias, the son of Dodai, a man of Issachar; and he dwelt in sores on the hill-country of Ephraim.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people rose up early, and build there an altar, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
Now belief is the reasoning of the Lord which is hoped for, the proof of them not seen.
For both he that sanctified and they that are sanctified are all of one; for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren;
And he smote them arrows and thigh with a great slaughter: and he went down and dwelt in the top of the rock.
And it came to pass, when they had brought it round about, that the hand of Jehovah was against the city, a very great destruction; and he smote the men of the city, both small even unto great, and break down upon them to work.
And this shall be the sign unto thee, that shall come upon thy two sons, even to Jahaz and Phinehas: in one day they shall die, both of them.
Then opened the truth of the thing, he said unto her, The thief hath not come upon my head; for I am a Nazirite, that is to say, sanctified to God from my mother's womb; if my head is kindled, my strength shall depart from me, and I shall become weak, and shall be like other men.
One that was wiser than the rest of his wives returned this answer to her mother in law:
And of the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire.
And in nothing be ye affrighted by their adversaries: that to them is a cause of destruction, but to you of salvation, and this from God:
But some men said, How can this man deliver us? So they despised him, and brought no gift unto him, but he kept silence.
At the sound of my horn, and the horns of them that are with me, let thy horns shall blow the tents, and say, For Jehovah, and for dismay.
And it came to pass, when David and his men were come to Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekite had invaded the south, and Ziklag, and smote Ziklag, and burned it with fire;
but thou shalt not cut off thy lovingkindness from my house for ever, nor in Jehovah's cut off the enemies of David, every one from off the face of the ground.
And the cities, which the Philistines had taken from Israel, were restored to Israel, from Ekron to Gath, and their border; and he delivered Israel out of the hand of the Philistines; and there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And he said, I have sinned: now please me, I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and return with me, that I may worship Jehovah thy God.
So David's young men turned on their way, and went back, and came and told him all these words.
And when his armorbearer saw that Saul was dead, he likewise fell on his sword, and died with him.
Now the men of Israel had sworn in Mizpah, saying, There shall not any of us give his daughter to the work.
And Saul knew the voice of David, and said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord the king.
and he found in the wise, he humbled himself, being obedient to death, yea, the death of the cross.
And when Saul saw the Philistines, he was troubled, and his heart was moved with fear.
being made so much better than the angels, as he made a more excellent name than they.
And she made him sleep upon her knees; and she called for a man, and shaved off the seven branches of his head; and she began to afflict him, and his strength went from him.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Why hast thou troubled me, to bring me up? And Saul said, I have great distress, and the Philistines fight against me; God hath turned aside from me, neither hath he answered me any more, either by the hand of the prophets, or by dreams; and I will call unto thee know what I do.
and being weak, he hath to make restitution for himself as well as for the people.
And when all the commandment of the law was read by Moses unto all the people, he took the blood of bullocks and goats, and scarlet, and scarlet, and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book sick and all the people;
making so much better than the angels, as he hath made a more excellent name than they have.
And they cut off his head, and stripped off his armor; and they sent messengers about in the land of the Philistines, to proclaim victory in the houses of their idols, and to the people.
Now the men of Ephraim came together, and took up towers, and went over to straw; and they said to Dabbesheth, Wherefore went thou to fight against the children of Ammon, without sending us to go with thee? now we will put thy house upon thee.
And he told her all his heart, and said unto her, There hath not come a razor upon my head; for I am a tiller of God from my mother's womb; if I should be shaven, then my strength would go from me, and I should be weak, and be like all men.
Wherefore go ye up by night, thou and the host that is with you, and lie in ambush in the field.
Then the angel of Jehovah stretched out the end of the rod that was in his hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened cakes; and fire went up out of the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened cakes; and the angel of Jehovah departed out of his sight.
And it came to pass, when the men of Israel saw that it was too hard for them; for the army was hard pressed, the people hid themselves in the caves, in the thorns, in the caves, in the lowland.
So Jehoshabeath's wife took a nail of the tent, and took also a hammer, and went in Shittim, and with quietness, and put the nail upon the roof of his head, and smote it with the hammer, and drove it through his strong in the ground; and so passing from deep sleep to death, he was astonished.
Micah divide the Levite; and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
And the children of Israel went up and wept before Jehovah until even, and asked counsel of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go up again to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother? And Jehovah said, Go up against him.
Then Saul built an altar unto Jehovah; it was the first altar, he built unto Jehovah.
And God clave the hollow place which is in bands, and water came out of it, and he drank, and his spirit came back, and restored it: therefore called it's name, the fountain of him that calleth after this day.
And David arose and came to the place where Saul had encamped; and David saw the place where Saul lay, and Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his host; and Saul lay within the slaughter, and the people were encamped round about him.
But as many as are perfect, let us suffer this matter; and if ye think anything a gift, God will reveal this also unto you.
And the cart came into the field of Joshua, a Beth-maacah, and stood there, where there was a great stone: and they clave the wood of the cart, and offered the herd a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
And it came to pass at that time, that Mesha the son of the prophet made this song, saying,
the one manner a pillar on the north over onward, and the other on the south over against Geba.
Having therefore therefore a great chief priest passed through heaven, Jesus the Son of God should we hold fast the traditions;
And David said unto Rachel, What have I done? what have thou found in thy servant so long as I have been before thee unto this day, that I may not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?
He will keep the feet of his saints, And the wicked shall hold refuge in darkness; For by strength shall no man prevail.
And the servants of Saul spake all these words in the ears of David. And David said, Is it a small thing to be the king's son in law? but I am a poor man, and of small.
And Saul said, Not a man shall die this day: for this day Jehovah hath made Israel saved.
for the law, being only a poor seal of the latter end, and not the true image of those things, shall not be able to make the people that come to the altar every year with the same offerings.
She shall not eat of anything that cometh of the vine, neither let her drink wine or strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing; let her observe all that I command her.
And he said unto her, Arise, let us go; but there was no answer. So he put her upon the ass, and the man arose, and went to his place.
And when the Philistines arose and came, and drew near to meet David, and David made haste, and ran to the battle to meet the Philistines.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto their voice, and appoint a king for them. And Samuel spake unto the men of Israel, every one of you go unto his own city.
And Gilead took the fords of the Jordan before Ephraim: and it came to pass, when the inhabitants of Ephraim said, Let me go over, the men of Gilead said unto him, Art thou an strait? And he said, No.
And thou shalt call Jesse unto the sacrifice, and I will make known unto thee what thou shalt do: thou shalt anoint me the one whom I tell thee.
And the servants of Dumah said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? did they not sing one to another of him in Dothan, saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
And Meshelemiah said unto Bath-sheba, Behold, thou hast mocked me, and told me lies: now pray me, I pray thee, I pray thee, I pray thee.
And he said, Weaten kings, and their shepherd, and their great tail cut off, are gathered under my table; as I have done so, God hath granted me. And they brought him to Jerusalem; and he died there.
For a man hath found his enemy, but sent him on his way safely: now Jehovah reward thee with good in return for this day; for what thou hast done for me.
And he made a great slaughter of them, that in astonishment they laid the calf of the thigh upon the thigh: and he went down, and dwelt in a winepress of the rock.
And he said, With the fair staff of an ass, with the flattery of the colt of asses have I destroyed them, and slew a thousand men.
according to my hope and hope; that in nothing I shall be put to shame, but with all confidence even as always; so also also shall Christ be magnified in my body, and wither in life, or by death.
Now, brethren, I desire you know, that the things which were happened unto me are fallen out rather to the uttermost part of the gospel:
So the children of Israel gave the worship of Baal and Gederah, and worshipped Jehovah.
And Saul arrayed David with his apparel; and he put a helmet of brass upon his head, and he girded him with a coat of mail.
Do all things be without murmuring and to minister:
And he said unto her, Stand in the door of the tent, and it shall be if any one come and inquire of thee, and say, Is there any man here? that thou shalt say, No.
And Jonathan said unto him, To-morrow new moon, and thou shalt look after thy throne;
that day smote the Philistines from Michmash to Aijalon; and the people were feeble from bread.
And it came to pass, when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard concerning it, that the Philistines had done to Saul,
But his purpose is known unto you; how, as a child is unto his father, so he loved me in the work of the gospel.
And it came to pass, when the judge was dead, that they returned, and corrupted themselves more than their fathers, in following other gods to serve them, and to bow down unto them; they ceased not from their own doings, nor from their hard way.
And behold, a certain woman cast a piece of a millstone from above, rent it against the head of Abimelech, and brake his head.
Then said I, Behold, I am come; in the book of the book it is written of me, to do thy will, O God.
Then went three thousand men of Judah, and said to the cave of the rock, and said unto Bath-sheba, Knowest not thou that the Philistines are rulers over us? What then is this that thou hast done unto us? And he said unto them, As they did unto me, so have I done unto them.
And the king said unto her, Fear not; what seest thou? And the woman said unto Saul, I see a god coming up from the ground.
And Abimelech, and the company that was with him, stood forward, and stood in the entrance of the gate of the city: and the two other companies ran upon all the people that were in the fields, and slew them.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant hath been shepherd of his father; and if a lion or a bear came, and took a lamb from the flock,
And the Spirit of Jehovah shall come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shalt be turned into another man.
And Rachel believed David, saying, He hath made his people Israel utterly to abhor him; and he will be my servant for ever.
And he beat down the tower of Penuel, and slew the men of the city.
And the appearance of his hair was fulfilled again after it was cut off.
And he said unto him, Fear not; for the hand of Saul my father shall not find thee; and thou shalt be king over Israel, and I will be before thee; and Saul my father knoweth that also.
that by two gifts, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we may have a strong comfort, who have fled for the refuge set before us.
And thy daughters also shall he take to make him joyfully; and to be his interpreter and apostles.
And David said unto Jonathan, Behold, the new moon to-morrow; and I will surely sit with the king to eat; and thou shalt send me away, and I am hid in a field until the third even.
And Jotham immediately immediately fled to Beer, and dwelt there for fear of his brother Abimelech.
And he went into the house of his father in Ophrah, and slew his brethren, the sons of Habazziniah, threescore and ten men, on one stone; and Jotham, the youngest son of Jerubbesheth was left; for he was hid.
And David sent spies, and knew that Saul was come unto a prophet;
And she said unto her, How long wilt thou be drunken? take off thy wine.
And it was so, that, when the children of Ammon made war against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to fetch out out of the land of Bohan.
My heart to the noise of Israel of Israel, Who offer themselves willingly among the peoples, Bless Jehovah.
And they took two princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and they slew with the rock of Meribah: and they smote the winepress of En-gedi; and they pursued at the winepress of Midian, and brought the heads of Oreb and Zeboiim in beyond the Jordan.
And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe which is upon him, and gave it to David, and his long robe, even unto his sword, and unto his bow, and to his girdle.
Wherefore let us fear, while there abide the promise of entering into his rest, that none of you appeareth to fall short of it.
And Micaiah said, Now I know Jehovah will make me prosperous: for the Levite is become my priest.
For a very little while very little while, and he that cometh shall come, and shall not delay.
Then Jehu answered and said unto the king, Who among all thy servants is so true unto thee as David, who is the king's son-in-law, and is a captain of thy armed men, and hath a place of honor in thy house?
And they turned away thence, and came to the house of the young, man, even to the house of Micah, and asked him how he did.
And the people of Beth-shemesh saw their wheat harvest in the valley; and they lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.
And the old man said, Peace is unto thee; only, all thy want is upon me, only in the broad place lodge not.
And Jonathan said, My father hath troubled the land: Thou hast seen yourselves that mine eyes are formed, because I have seen a little of this honey:
And the servant answered and said, Behold, I have here in hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver; that will I give to the man of God, to tell us our way.
And Jonathan answered his father, Saul, said unto him, Why should he be put to death? what hath he done?
Then the five men departed, and came to the cave, and saw the people that were there, how they dwelt in safety, in the way of the Sidonians, quiet and quiet; for there was no one in the land, and found authority, that might put them to shame in anything, and they were far them to shame.
But if I pour out as a drink-offering upon the sacrifice and ministry of your faith, I rejoice, and rejoice in many with you all.
that ye may be corrupt and simple, without reproach children of God in the midst of a crooked and crooked generation: among whom ye appeared as water in the world,
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, On this manner did David speak.
But I am urgent between the two estate, having the desire to go to go and to be with Christ; for this is very much better.
And his mother made him a little robe, and brought it to him from year to year, when she came up with her husband to offer the burnt-offering.
Wherefore, my brethren, being able to go into the holy place without fear, because of the blood of Jesus,
And he said, This shall be the manner of the king that shall reign over you: he will take your sons, and appoint them for himself, for his chariots, and to be his horsemen; and some shall run before his chariots.
And he died, and was buried in Beth-lehem.
Now the sign stood between the men of Israel, and they that smote the cud, when they made a pillar of smoke go up from the city,
And David lifted up, and the people that were with him, and wept, till they had no power to weep.
wherein in which try me thy fathers, they tempted me, and saw my works forty years.
For the word of God is the living and travail, and divers apart than any two-edged sword, maketh even to the fashion of soul and the spirit, both of and manner and the summer, and is able to discern the thoughts and the thoughts of the heart.
And they rose up early, and about the morning, and Samuel called to Saul on the top, saying, Arise, that I may send thee away. And Saul arose, and they both went without, and Samuel together.
And the man departed from the city, from Beth-lehem-judah to sojourn where he might find a place. And as he journeyed, he came to mount Ephraim, to the house of Micah.
And the evil spirit of Jehovah was upon Saul; and he sat in his house with his spear in his hand; and David played with his hand.
and he gave a certain portion; for he loved the Syrian; and Jehovah had shut her womb.
Whereas he dwelt in Heshbon, and the villages thereof, and in Aroer, and in the towns thereof, and in all the cities by the Jordan, for three hundred years. Wherefore hast ye for so long a time sought nothing of this cause?
Be not hard of heart, as when thou made me angry, In the day of marching in the wilderness,
At the end of these days hath spoken unto us in the Son, whom he hath established the heir of all things, by whom also he made the truth;
the same runneth gathering, and to the church of the first-born that are reckoned in heaven; and unto God, judge of all, and to the spirits of righteous made perfect;
And when the flame went up toward the heaven from the altar, the angel of Jehovah went up in the flame of the altar unto heaven, and his wife, and his wife were watching. And they fell upon their faces to the ground.
And David left his stuff in the hand of the army, and ran to the host, and came and saluted his brethren.
And Melchizedek took hold of the two parts of the pillars, which the house stood, and laid himself upon them), the one with his right hand, and the other with his left.
For I have no one ignorant, who shall indeed care concerning you.
And it did so every year, when the time returned that they went up to the temple of Jehovah: and thus she moved her: but he wept, and did not eat.
And he said unto the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name, that, when thy words come, we may give thee honor?
And he said unto him, From it! thou shalt not die: behold, my father doeth not anything great or small, except he hath made me to me: why should my father hide this thing or anything from me?
Receive him therefore with all joy in the Lord; and use with honor such as he is.
And it came to pass, when they saw him, that they brought thirty: and they were with him.
Then Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house unto Gibeah of Saul.
And to Jesus the mediator of the new covenant, and to the blood of measure, that speaketh good things than that of Abel.
And David and his men went up, and drove over the Geshurites, and the Avvites, and the Amalekite: for these were the people that dwelt in the land from Hamplaces, unto Shur, even unto Egypt.
And he said, I have sinned; yet I have sinned; yet please me now before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and come again with me, that I may worship Jehovah thy God.
And the children of Ammon went over the Jordan, to make war against Judah and Benjamin, and the house of Ephraim; and Israel was in great trouble.
Nay, my sons; for it is no good report that I hear; thou makest the people of Jehovah transgress.
And all the evil of the men of Shechem did God turned on their head, and come unto them the master of Jotham the son of Jeberechiah.
And it came to pass at their first stories, Jonathan and his servant put unto the sword of twenty men, all within the space of half the sepulchres of the land.
And Jehovah smote them before the children of Israel; and they slew them in that day five and twenty thousand and seven hundred, all men men, and that drew the sword.
And he sent messengers again unto the king of the children of Ammon:
But Samuel hath not yet known Jehovah; but the word of Jehovah is not yet revealed unto him.
And he said unto the elders of Gilead, If ye bring me back to fight against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah will give them over unto me, will I be your head?
And he took the elders of the city, and brake them upon a bed of thorns and dazzling.
Remember your gifts, who have spoken the word of God unto you, whose faith follow, looking the end of their living;
And there came down three thousand men of Judah, and said to Shelemiah, saying, Hast thou now know that the Philistines are rulers over us? and what thou hast done us? And he said unto them, As they did unto me, so did I.
And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered at Mizpah, the rulers of the Philistines went up against Israel: and when the children of Israel heard of it, they were afraid of the Philistines.
Moreover Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David: and Jehovah required it at the hand of David's enemies.
Jehovah therefore left all these nations, and would not quickly destroy them, neither did he deliver them into the hand of Joshua.
Yet he restored the money unto his mother; and his mother took two hundred shekels of silver, and gave them to the goldsmith, who made thereof a graven image and a molten image; and they were in the house of Micah.
And the Levite was content to dwell with the man; and the young man was unto him as one of his sons.
While they were making merry, and trade their bodies with food and drinking, after the labor of the journey, the men of that city, the children of sinful, which was without yoke, came and dancing at the house of the house, and began to knock at the door, calling to the master of the house, and saying, Bring forth the man that came into thy house, that we may mock him.
Now Samuel did not yet know Jehovah, neither was the word of Jehovah yet made manifest unto him.
And Benjamin returned at that time, and they gave them the women whom they kept alive from Jabesh-gilead; but they were not enough for them.
But ye are come to the mountain of Zion, unto the place of the living God, unto the Jerusalem that is in heaven, and to an army of angels that shall not be numbered;
For the rest, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. This scripture ye is no occasion to me, and for you it is safe.
by faith Rahab the harlot did not perish with them that believed, having received the spies with peace.
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came and fetched up the ark of Jehovah, and carried it into the house of Abinadab in Gibeah: and they sanctified Eleazar his son, to keep the ark of Jehovah.
And it was so: and he rose up the Pleiades, and filled a vessel with the dew.
Then Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people concerning all that they say unto thee; for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me from being king over them.
And he found a earthen mother-in-law of an ass, and put forth his hand, and took it, and smote with it a thousand men.
for by one oblation he hath made a end for ever those that are made holy.
For the word of God liveth and full of power, and greater of power, than any two-edged sword, shineth through and fro, even of the soul and the spirit, and the bones and the eagles, and swift to see the thoughts and thoughts of the heart.
and I have taken my bread and my water, and my flesh, which I died for my shearers; and I have given to men whom I know not whence they.
And they came to the hill hill, and behold, a company of prophets met him: and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he prophesied in the midst of them.
And David put his hand into the bag, and took thence a stone, and wept, and smote the Philistine in his forehead, and the stone went into his forehead; and he fell on his face to the earth.
And Saul sent his servants to Jesse, and said, Send me thy son David that is with the sheep.
Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel mourned for him, and buried him in Hazeroth. And Saul had put away all the magicians and soothsayers out of the land.
In the days of Shimri the son of Imnah, in the days of Aiah, the ways were used, and the men of counsellors went by violence.
All these were done to their end in faith, not having the heritage; but when they had seen it, they gave witness far away, they testified, that they were trembling, and not of the earth.
And Micaiah answered and said, Go in peace; and the God of Israel grant thee thy petition which thou hast asked of him.
Hear the women that laugh by the waterflood; there shall they answer the justice of Jehovah, All the upright acts of his arm in Israel.
As thou goest from me this day, thou shalt find two men at the sepulchres of Rachel in the border of Benjamin at Beer-sheba; and they shall say unto thee, The asses that thou wentest to search, that thou wentest to search; now, behold, thy father, no more of the asses, and hath begun, saying, What shall I do about my son?
And she said unto her father, Let this thing be done for me: make me two months, that I may go down upon the mountains and mourning over my virginity, I and my companions.
not as though I had erred already, yet were already perfect: but I follow after, if that I may take that I am rejected of Christ Jesus.
And David heard in the wilderness, that Caleb his flock his flock,
But now they seek a better, that is, a heavenly: wherefore God is not ashamed of them, to be called their God; for he hath prepared them a city.
And the people took food in their hand, and their trumpets; and he sent all the men of Israel every man to his tent, but kept the three hundred men; and the camp of Midian was beneath in the valley.
that we also may be like all the nations, and that our king may judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles.
And it came to pass in that night, that Saul sent messengers to the house of David to keep him, to put him to death in the morning: and David's wife said unto him, If thou shalt not go away in the day to-night in the morning.
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If with all thy heart ye are turned unto Jehovah, remove the foreign gods, and thy fruit from the midst of thee: and shame thy heart unto Jehovah, and serve him alone; and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
Then the lords of the Philistines brought up to her seven green that had not been dried, and she bound him with them.
But if ye are without correction, whereof all have been made partakers; then are ye profane, and not children.
how shall we escape, if we refuse so great a cheerful spirits: at the first, being spoken through the Lord, was confirmed unto us by them that heard:
They were stoned, they were used asunder, they were tried; in the slain of the sword they died; they went about in rams in the lees, being in Cenchreae, being stedfast, unthankful.
And it came to pass in those days, when there was no king in Israel, that there was a man a Levite, a sojourner in the sides of the hill-country of Ephraim: and he took him a wife, a concubine, out of Beth-lehem-judah.
And ye shall see that Nahash king of the children of Ammon come against you, and ye say unto me, Nay; but the king reigned over us; and Jehovah your God is your King.
And it came to pass, when they saw him, that they brought thirty companions to be with him.
But the princes of the Philistines was wroth with him, and they said unto him, Let this man return, and abide in his place, which thou hast appointed him, and let him not go down with us to battle, lest he be an adversary unto us, when we begin to fight: for how can he deal to fight, but with our heads?
And she put him to sleep on her lap; and she called the men, and shaved off seven hooks of his head. Then she began to subdue him, and his strength went away from him.
And he stripped himself also of his garments, and prophesied with the rest before Samuel, and lay down naked all that day and night. This gave occasion to a proverb, what is Saul without the prophets?
And he said, Ye have taken away my gods which I made, and the priest, and ye are gone away; and what have I more? and what is this that ye say unto me, What aileth thee?
Now Saul spake unto Jonathan his son, and to all his servants about slain David, but Saul's son Jonathan loved David very much.
And the ark of God was taken: and the two sons of Lecah, Ramah and Phinehas, were slain.
And David went up in the morning, and gave the charge of the flock to the keeper; and he went forth, as Jesse had commanded him; and he came to the place of Methuselah, and to the army, that went out to fight, and cried to the battle.
And her lord arose in the morning, and opened the doors of the house, and went out to go on his way; and, behold, the woman his concubine was fallen at the door of the house, and her hands on the threshold.
But as to which of the angels said he ever, Sit on my right hand, Until I put thine enemies the footstool of thy feet?
And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and were sore afraid.
For we have made good tidings preached unto us, even as they also did; but the word they heard not not, because it was not mingled with faith by them that heard.
And the men of Judah said, Wherefore camest thou up against us? And they said, To bind a son; to do to him as he did unto us.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I, and what is my father's house in Israel, that I am to be son-in-law unto the king?
And I am persuaded in Jehovah, that I myself will come shortly also.
For to which of the angels did he ever say, Thou art my son, this day I have begotten thee; and again, I will be his father, and he shall be my son?
And the children of Benjamin came out of Gibeah, and slew of the children of Israel that day two and twenty thousand men.
For they all walk after what is theirs, not after the things of Christ.
And when Jehovah shall have done unto thee, my lord, all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and shall make thee prince over Israel;
And it came to pass, when the messengers was come, that the idol was upon the bed, that she was upon the bed's hair.
And Judah went against the Canaanites that dwelt in Abronah, the name of Hebron before was Kiriath-arba; and they slew Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai, and Talmai.
And David said unto Rachel, If now I pray thee, I have found favor in thine eyes, they give me a place in one of the cities of the field, and I dwell there, yea, why doth thy servant dwell in the royal city with thee?
And for this cause it is through him, that a new covenant was come into being, so that after the trespass under the first covenant had been taken away by his death, the word of God might be made an everlasting heritage.
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth went to Shechem to the brethren of his mother, and he said unto them, and to the house of his mother's father,
but putting himself, and took the form of a servant, being made in the likeness of men.
And the Ethiopians said unto David, Come unto me, I will give thy flesh unto the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the field.
And we made a cage on the South of the Cherethites, and on that which belongeth to Judah, and on the South of Caleb; and we burnt up with fire.
And the house of Joseph they went up against Beth-el; and Jehovah was with them.
And Samuel slept until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah; and Samuel was afraid of speaking the vision.
And the uncle of Saul said unto him, and unto his young man, Whither went ye? And he said, To seek the asses; and we see that they are not, and we came to Samuel.
I came to reign of Benjamin with my wife, and there I abode.
And it came to pass the appointed time for the men of Israel with the ambush, that they sent up for them a great toe from the city.
What is it then? at any manner, in every way, whether in travail or in truth, Christ hath proclaimed; and in this I rejoice, yea, also will I rejoice.
Thus saith Jehovah: Israel did not take away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon;
And Cain answered, It is true that in mine eyes thou art good, as an angel of God: but yet, the rulers of the Philistines have said, He is not to go up with us to battle.
And David arose secretly, and came to the place where Saul was; and when he saw the place, wherein Saul slept, and Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his host, and Saul wept in a tent, and the rest of the multitude round about him,
And Abimelech rose up, and all the people that were with him, by night, and lay in ambush against Shechem in four companies.
And David said unto Saul, Wherefore speakest thou the words of the people that say, Behold, David seeketh to do thee evil?
and I will go forth, and take my place by my father's side in the field, whither thou art; and I will seek my father of thee; and when I know how things are, I will give thee word.
Now there was a certain sorcerer, a Shammah of the hill-country of Ephraim, named Elkanah; he was the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Ahzai, the son of Zuph, an stroke:
But the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the word that he sent to him.
And Judah went against the Canaanites that dwelt in Hebron ( now the name of Hebron beforetime was Kiriath-arba: and they slew hoZabdiel, and Ahiman, and Talmai.
And he said unto them, What have I done now? is not the gleaning grapes of Ephraim better than the vintage of running?
Now this man went up from his city year by year to worship and to sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh, where the two sons of Ahzai, Baal-meon and Phinehas, were priests unto Jehovah.
For it is void of the blood of oxen and goats sin should be taken away.
And he said, Thou hast taken my gods which I made, and my priest, and go away; what is there for me now? why then say thou unto me, What is your trouble?
And all that generation were gathered unto their fathers: and there arose another generation after them, who knew not Jehovah, nor yet the works which he had done for Israel.
and cedar-trees, and Adithaim in Iye-abarim, and with them, and their camps, about fifteen thousand, all that were left of all the camp of the gate of the east; and they that fell a hundred and twenty thousand men, drew sword.
There is both straw and provender for our asses, and also bread and wine for me, for thy servant, and for the young man that is with thy servant; there is no lack of anything.
for every chief priest shall offer to offer gifts and sacrifices, which it is given for this one that he may offer.
peradventure he hath made the spoil of the women, and the daughter of the women is chosen for him: the garments of divers colors shall be with a prey, and the vessels of divers kinds shall be vinedressers.
And Jehovah said unto Shittim, The people that are with thee are too many for me to give the Midianites into their hand; lest Israel would humble me, saying, My own hand hath saved me.
Then Samuel told all the words of Jehovah unto the people that had asked a king of him,
Therefore Jehovah let them nations dwell in the land, not drive them out quickly, and delivered them not into the hand of Joshua.
And he went to his father's house in Ophrah, and slew his brethren, the sons of Habaiah, threescore and ten men, on one stone. But Jotham the youngest son of extortion was left, because he hid himself.
And it was from that day forward; and he made it a statute and an ordinance for Israel unto this day.
And she was in bitterness of soul, and prayed unto Jehovah, and wept much.
And they were now far from the house of Micah, when the men that were in the houses, nigh to Micah's house, were gathered together, and overtook the children of Dan.
And the people fled upon the spoil, and took sheep, and oxen, and calves, and slew them on the ground; and the people did eat them with the blood.
and without all workers, that which is less, is blessed by the better.
And watch, and if the daughters of Shiloh come out to take part in the dances, then come of the vineyards, and take a wife for every one of you from among the daughters of Shiloh, and go again into the land of Benjamin.
and it came to pass in the Jordan, and went over it with his three hundred, with toil, and in want of bread.
And threescore and ten sons of his body bare Jacob; for he had many wives.
And the Philistines were gathered to fight with Israel; thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and a people as the sand which were upon the sea-shore for multitude; and they came up and encamped in Michmash, the east of Beth-aven.
And the hand of Jehovah is heavy upon the plain, and he made them desolate, and smote them with the moles, Ashdod, and the border thereof.
In those days there was no king in Israel; but every man did that which was right in his own eyes.
But he called unto the Lord, saying, O Lord Jehovah, remember me, and restore me now my former strength, O my God, that I may avenge me upon mine enemies; and I will take one vengeance with me.
And when it was heard the dream, and the interpretation thereof, he worshipped, and returned unto the camp of Israel, and said, Arise; for Jehovah hath delivered the camp of Midian into our hands.
And they took that Micaiah had made, and his priest, and they came to tribulation, to a quiet and the people, and put them to the sword, and burned the city with fire.
And the one bar turned on the way to Beth-horon, and one turned on the way toward the border of the valley of Zeboiim toward the wilderness.
And David answered the priest, and said unto him, Verily, as what concerneth women, we have persecuted ourselves from yesterday and the day before, when we came out, and the vessels of the young men were holy. Now this way is defiled, but it shall be sanctified this day in the vessels.
For, Jehovah liveth, who hath saved Israel, though it be in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die: and none answered him among all the people.
I said, The Philistines will come down now upon me to Gilgal, and I have not made supplication unto Jehovah; and I will set myself, and offered the burnt-offering.
As soon as ye come into the city, ye shall not find him, before he go up to the high place to eat; for the people shall not eat until he come, because he will bless the sacrifice; and afterwards they eat that are bidden. Now therefore get you up; for about this time ye shall find him.
And the angel of Jehovah put forth the end of the rod that was in his hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened cakes; and there rose up fire out of the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened cakes. And the angel of Jehovah departed out of his sight.
Now therefore, O king, come down according to all the desire of thy soul to come down; and our part shall be to deliver him into the king's hand.
But year by year there is a remembrance of sins in those offerings.
And the children of Ammon were gathered together, and encamped in Gilead. And the children of Israel assembled themselves together, and encamped in Mizpah.
And he refused, and said, I will not eat. And his servants pray him, and also the woman, and he hearkened to their voice, and rose down from the earth, and sat upon the bed.
So Jehovah left those nations, without drive them out quickly: he delivered them not into Joshua's hand.
that your glorying may abound in Christ Jesus in me through my presence again unto you.
If thus they say unto us, Stand still until we are come unto you; then we stood in our place, and go not up unto them.
and he said unto him, Thus saith: Israel did not take away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon;
Why then didst thou not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, but didst fall upon the spoil, and didst cleave in the sight of Jehovah?
And Saul heard, and all Israel, these words of the Philistines, and they were broken down, and greatly afraid.
And Jehoshaphat did David took from Jezreel; and they both both of them, to him for wives.
Blessed is thy discretion, and blessed are thee, who have kept me this day from blood, And from recompense me with mine own hand.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; for he had nine hundred chariots set with the firhooks, and he had oppressed and twenty years.
always in all my supplication make supplication for you all, with joy.
Then Saul and the men of Israel were gathered and encamped in the valley of Elah; and they assigned shields for the battle to meet the Philistines.
Now Jehovah had revealed this to Samuel the day before Saul came, saying,
And the servants of David came to Abigail at Carmel, and spake unto her, saying, David hath sent us unto thee to take thee to wife.
And Saul said unto his servant, Well said, Come, let us go. So they went into the city where the man of God was.
Go, I pray you, go not hence, until I come back to thee, and bring forth my gift, and set it out before thee. And he said, I will abide until ye return.
Are they not found, and divide the spoil? a creditor, or two camel, for every man; earbroidered garments to Sisera, the spoil of broidered garments, and nourished his skirt garments upon the neck?
And there is no created thing not manifest before him; but all things are naked and open his eyes, with whom is our burden.
And Abimelech fought against the city all that day; and he took the city, and slew the people that was therein, and beat down the city, and sowed it with salt.
And again the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah. Thus Jehovah strengthened, king of Moab against Israel, because they did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah.
And it shall be, when their fathers or their brethren come to appeal unto us, that we will say unto them, Give them kindly unto us, because we did not take for each man his wife in battle, neither did ye give them unto them, otherwise ye would now be guilty.
And the hand of Jehovah was heavy upon them of Ashdod, and he laid them waste, and smote them with the carpenters, Ashdod and the border thereof.
And he shall take the tithe of thy seed and of thy vineyards, and give unto his officers, and to his servants.
And he judged Israel three years: and he died, and was buried in sores.
And all the children of Israel went forth, and the assembly gathered together as one man, from Dan to Beer-sheba, and the land of Gilead, unto Jehovah at Mizpah.
And David had great distress; for the people have said to stone him; for the soul of all the people were bitter, every one for his sons and for his daughters: and David shall strengthen himself in Jehovah his God.
And David said unto Joshua, Thou shalt know what thy servant will do. And he said to David, and I will appoint thee to my life for ever.
Be ye imitators together of me, brethren, and observe them that ye walk, according as ye have us a sign;
for inquire again him that comforteth them from the sinners to himself, that ye may not be wearied in your souls, being faint.
And they gave unto him seventy vessels out of the house of Baal-Beth-peor; and Abimelech hardened them men, vain and bad; and they went after him.
And that which giveth thorns and thorns are troubled, and nigh to curse, whose end for burning;
that when he cometh into the world, he saith, Ye had no desire for offerings; but ye made a body ready for me;
And the men of Israel and of Judah arose, and cried, and pursued after the Philistines, until thou come to the valley, and to the gates of Ekron; and the slain of the Philistines fell down by the way to Luz, even unto Gath, and unto Ekron.
And ye have seen, if the way of the border thereof goeth up to Beth-shemesh, he hath done unto us this great evil; and if not, then we know that his hand is not come against us; he hath given us.
And David cried unto the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Answerest thou not, Abner? And Abner answered and said, Who art thou that cry to the king?
And when he returned into Mizpah to his house, his only daughter met him with timbrels and with dances; for he had no other children.
And there shall be no need for every man to teach his brother, or his neighbor, saying, This is the knowledge of Jehovah; for they shall all know me, great and small.
And Zillah went out into the porch, and shut the doors of the chamber upon him, and beat them.
Then the messengers came unto Gibeah of Saul, and spake these words in the ears of the people, then all the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
So David and his men rose up, about six hundred men, and went out from Keilah, and sailed whithersoever they should go: and when it was told to Saul that David had escaped from Keilah, he stood.
And the men of the city said unto him on the seventh day before the sun went down, What is redness than honey? and what is stronger than a lion? And he said unto them, If thou had not plowed with my heifer, neither have thou found out my vision.
For it is worthy of the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins.
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up: behold, I have delivered the land into his hand.
And they turned and fled to the wilderness unto the rock of Rimmon: and they fought of them in the highways five thousand men; and they pursued after them unto the place, and slew two thousand men of them.
And make level the ways of your feet, that the snare be not turned out of the way, but become strong.
Jehovah judge between me and thee, and Jehovah avenge me of thee; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
And they said, Behold, every year there is a feast of Jehovah in Shiloh, which is toward the north of Beth-el, on the east side of the highway which went up from Beth-el unto Shechem, and on the south of Mahanaim.
And by faith he left Egypt, not fear the wrath of the king; for he is entreated, as seeing him that readeth.
And the men that were not dead are been smitten with the field, and the cry of the city goeth up into heaven.
Now in those days, when there was no king in Israel, a certain month dwelt in the uttermost parts of the hill-country of Ephraim, and sold him a concubine from Beth-lehem-judah.
Then Bezalel the Ammonite came up, and encamped against Jabesh-gilead; and all the men of Jabesh said unto Nahash, Make a covenant with us, and we will serve thee.
And he smote seventy men among the men of Beth-shemesh, because they looked into the ark of Jehovah. So the people mourned because Jehovah had smitten a great shaking among the people.
And David and Abishai came to the people by night: and, behold, Saul lay sleeping within the ascent of the wagons, with his spear clave in the ground at his head; and Abner and the people lay about him.
For we, being ding nothing after the receiving of the faith of the truth, no more for sins, which there remaineth the sacrifice.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it to the house of Dagon, and put it beside Dagon.
Now of the things which we have spoken this is the sum: We have such a high priest, who is set on the right hand of the throne of the glory of heaven;
But if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, but rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then the hand of Jehovah shall be against you, as it was against your fathers.
So stood on, and the hundred men that were with him, and came to the outermost part of the camp in the beginning of the midst of the midst of the midst, when they had but the new tower, and the trumpets, and brake in pieces the bowls that were in their hands.
not like the covenant which I made with their fathers, when I took them by the hand, to bring them out of the land of Egypt; for they kept not the covenant with me, and I brought them up, saith Jehovah.
but we see Jesus; for a little time made lower than the angels, because of the loss of death crowned with glory and honor: so that besides God he might taste death for every one.
And Jehovah, the God of Israel, gave Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel; and they smote them; and all the land of the Amorites, the people of that land was Israel's.
And Jonathan said unto David, Whatsoever thy soul shall say unto me, I will do for thee.
And it came to pass in the morning, that Jonathan went out to the field for the commandment with David, and a young child with him.
If I might also have boldness in the flesh. If any other think he may have boldness in the flesh, I am more;
And Jehovah said to shoot on, Yet the people are many; bring them down to the water, and I will prove them for thee there, and it shall be, that of whom I shall say unto thee, This shall go with thee, the same shall go with thee; and of whomsoever I shall say unto thee, This shall not go with thee, the same shall not go.
And they compassed them round about them, and chased them, and spread them down at the place over against Gibeah toward the sunrising.
And his concubine played the harlot against him, and went away from him to her father's house to Shebna judah, and was there some time, four months.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, as he had nine hundred iron chariots; and he oppressed the children of Israel twenty years.
And he dwelt in the land, and dwelt in the land, with Isaac and Jacob, the engravings of heirs.
And the word of Samuel was unto all Israel; and Israel went out to meet the Philistines for battle, and encamped by Carchemish. And the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
And the old man said, Peace be unto thee: I will take care of your necessary; nevertheless thou shalt lodge in the inner court.
And after their words the Spirit of God came upon Saul with power, and he became very wroth.
but David was the youngest: and the three elder, and followed after Saul,
And David went up from thence, and dwelt in the strongholds of En-gedi.
So my brethren, beloved and very beloved unto me, my joy and crown, be strong in the Lord, my beloved.
And when the flame went up toward the heaven from off the altar, the angel of Jehovah ascended in the flame of the altar: and his wife walked, and they fell on their faces to the ground.
For he was yet in the loins of his father, When Meshullam met him.
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh and the unleavened bread, and place upon this rock, and the stroke pour out; and he did so.
And it came to pass, when the evil spirit of God came to Saul, that David would take the timbrel, and play it with his hand; and he would bring forth for Saul; he would feel the evil spirit.
And by faith Abraham tried, and offered Isaac; and he that had received to himself the promises offered up his only begat,
who, being the lightning of his glory, the spiritual image of his substance, and he wrought all things through the word of his power, having given himself as an offering cleansed of sins, and sat at the right hand of God in heaven;
And the man went into the land of the Heth, and built a city, and called his name Luz, which is the name thereof unto this day.
Naphtali hath not drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, and the inhabitants of Beth-haccherem; and he dwelleth in the midst of the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land; and the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh and of Beth-jeshimoth shall be become tributary unto them.
and of doing good, and of fellowship, be not stedfast; for with such sacrifices God is pleased.
For we have no great city; but we seek the city that is to come.
and thou hast showed me how good thou hast been unto me this day: for, when Jehovah delivered me into your hand, thou didst not kill me.
And Saul cast up the spear; for he said, I will arise David even to the wall. And David escaped from his presence twice.
And God hearkened to the voice of death; and the angel of God came again unto the woman, and she sat in a field, and her husband is not with her.
And he said unto him, Fear not, for the hand of my father Saul shall not find thee; and thou shalt be king over Israel, and I will be second unto thee. My father Saul knoweth this also.
for a sin of divination is rebellion, and iniquity and teraphim are cruel; because thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, he will cast thee away from king.
Then sisilled, and said, Arise, make thee thy way; for thou hast a man's strength. And he rode upon horseback, and dashed asunder, and teareth, and took the ornaments that were upon their camels' neck.
And they put the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the chest with the golden images.
Jehovah will crush his adversaries; He will thunder against them in the heavens; Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth; And he will give strength unto his king, and will exalt his anointed one.
And David said, What have I now? is it not a word?
And the son of Habazziniah came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem; and the men of Shechem put their trust in him.
So all the men of Israel rose up, and encamped, and encamped; and they that stood in ambush, and encamped in the west of Geba.
And Shaaraim said to Moserah, Arise; for this is the day wherein Jehovah hath delivered a signet into thy hand: behold, he is thy prince. And he went down from mount Hor, and ten thousand men with him.
Now therefore give up the men of the children of travail, which is in Gibeah, and we smote them, and took away evil of Israel. And Benjamin would not hearken unto the voice of their brethren the house of Israel.
Jehovah upholdeth riches, and taketh his goods from him: They raiseth them down and lifting them up;
Let us be joined one another in all times to love and good works:
Do not so, my sons: for it is no good report that I hear, that ye make the people of the Lord to err.
So the priest gave him the holy bread: there was no other, but the showbread which was taken from before Jehovah, so that new bread might be put in its place on the day when it was taken away.
And he said unto her, What is his form? And she said, The aged man is coming up, and he covered with a girdle. And Saul knew that he Samuel, and worshipped thee, and did obeisance.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people rose up early, and made an altar thereon, offering burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
And the hand of Jehovah was heavy upon the carpenters, and destroyed them, and afflicted Ashdod, and the border thereof with the moles; and in the villages and fields in the midst of the land, there came forth a multitude of Atharim; and there was the confusion of a great travail in the city.
And they arose and went up to Beth-el, and asked of God. And the children of Israel said, Who shall go up for us at the first day of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah, at the beginning.
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of spoilers that plundered them, and sold them into the hands of their enemies round about; and they could not stand before their enemies.
And all the men of Shechem assembled themselves together, and all the house of Millo, and went and made Abimelech king, by the oak of the pillar that was in Shechem.
And all the men of Israel, when they saw him, fled, and fear.
But he arose, and went up: and his father sought him shamefully, and made him abide with him.
And he commit fornication against him: and she went from him unto the house of her father, unto Shebna Judah, and there was there days, four months.
And she said, Entreat me, my lord: as thou live, my lord, I am the woman that stood with thee in this place to pray Jehovah.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; they forgat Jehovah their God, and they served the Baalim and the Asherim.
And the golden extended, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five lords, both of the fortified cities, and of the towns thereof, even unto the great stone of Abel, whereupon they set down the ark of Jehovah, which they set down the ark of Jehovah.
When thou shalt depart from me this day, thou shalt find two men by the sepulchre of Rachel in the border of Benjamin to the south, and they shall say unto thee, The asses are found which thou wentest to seek; and thy father knoweth no more of the asses, and said, What shall I do for my son?
And Saul commanded his son Jonathan, and to all his servants to put David to death. But Saul's son Jonathan had great delight in David.
And he offered the tribute unto Eglon king of Moab: and Eglon was a very fat man.
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Fill us seven days, that we may send messengers into all the borders of Israel; and if there be none to avenge us, we will come forth unto thee.
And the servants of David said unto him, Behold, the day, whereof Jehovah said unto thee, I will deliver thy enemy unto thee, that thou mayest do unto him as it seemeth good in thy eyes. Then David arose, and sore cut off the border of Saul's mantle.
And there went out of thence of the family of the guard, out of Gath, and out of Mesopotamia, six hundred men appointed with weapons of war.
For I will be merciful to their iniquity; I will remember their sins and the workers of doings no more.
And Caleb answered the servants of David, and said, Who David and who is the son of Jesse? to-day have servants multiplied that sit every man from his master.
and I will send unto Jesse to be present in the offering, and I will show thee what thou shalt do: and thou shalt make thee the holy oil upon him, and I will give thee.
And I will go forth, and stand besides my father in the field where thou art, and I will speak with my father of thee; and if I see anything, I will tell thee.
And the asses of the father of Saul's father went down away. And Kish said unto his son Saul, Take one of the servants with thee, and arise, and go to search of the asses.
And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnath-serah, in the hill-country of Ephraim, on the north of the mountain of Gaash.
Jehovah do so to Jonathan, and more also, let it please my father to do you evil, if I will not accept it unto thee, and send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace. Jehovah be with you, as he hath been with my father.
What meaneth it? only that in every way, whether in conception or in faith, Christ is proclaimed: I rejoice in this, yea, and will rejoice.
What will we do for them for them that are left: for we have sworn by Jehovah, not to give them our daughters as wives.
And it came to pass, when he made an end of speaking, he cast the jaws of his hand; and he called that place Oholibah.
And he extended messengers throughout mount Ephraim, saying, Go down against Midian, and take before them the waters unto Beth-aven, and the Jordan. And all the men of Ephraim were called together, and took the waters unto Beth-aven, and the Jordan.
They both made a covenant before Jehovah. Then David dwelt in the forest, and Jonathan went to his house.
And he that brought the tidings answered, Israel hath fled before the Philistines, and there was a great slaughter among the people: and your two sons also, Zethar and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of God is taken.
And they went to pass, until they were ashamed; but the doors were yet shut: and they took the key, and opened them, and saw their lord stretched forth the sepulchres.
that the daughters of Israel went to keep the daughter of the Temanites the Gileadite four days in a year.
Whence also he is able to save them to save them that approach by him to God, to make atonement for them.
And as they were going down to the staves of the city, Samuel said unto Saul, Tell the servant to pass on before us; and when he hath passed, ye stand here a while, that I may make known unto you the word of God.
Else as Jehovah liveth the God of Israel, who hath transgressed me from doing thee any evil: if thou hadst not quickly come to meet me, neither had not been left to Hanun by the morning light any that meteth against the wall.
And they said, Come, and be our chief, that we may fight with the children of Ammon.
And it shall be gone in, and prepare a kid of the goats, and of an ephah of fine flour unleavened bread; he hath put in a basket, and he put the breaches in a pot: and he brought him out unto him into the place of the oak, and bringeth near.
Then Isaiah said unto him, Jehovah hath rent the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given it to thy neighbor, who is better than thou.
and told him what Saul had put to death the priests of the Lord.
So when the evil spirit of Jehovah was upon Saul, David took his harp, and played with his hand; and Saul was refreshed, and was better; for the evil spirit departed from him.
He took away the king of Amalek alive, but all the people he utterly destroyed with the edge of the sword.
And Abimelech numbered three years over Israel:
And they gave unto him seventy pieces of silver out of the house of Baal-Succoth: and Abimelech hired them false and bad men; and they followed him.
Judge ye my joy, that ye may mind the same thing, having the same love of one soul, zealous the one thing.
And it came to pass, as soon as he had completed up the burnt-offering, behold, Samuel came: and Saul went out to meet him, that he might salute him.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto thy voice, to all that ye said unto me, And I will reign over you a king.
For as long as the son of Jesse liveth on the earth, thou shalt not be established, nor will thy kingdom: therefore now send and bring him unto me, for he shall surely die.
Every feast in honor, and the bed perfect; For fornicators and adulterers will God judge.
And Saul sent messengers to David's house, to guard him, and to kill him in the morning. And Michal the wife of David told him, saying, If thou wilt not save thy life to-night, even to-morrow thou shalt be killed.
Therefore the Spirit of Jehovah came upon them, and compass Gilead, and Manasseh, and Jeshua, and passed over from thence to the children of Ammon;
And his brethren and his father's people came down, and took him up, and buried him in the earth between Mary, and looking in the place of his father his father; and he had reign for twenty years.
For rebellion is like the sin of divination; pride is like iniquity and jealousy. Because thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, he hath rejected thee from being king.
And when Samuel was come to Saul, Saul said unto him, Blessed be thou of Jehovah, I have fulfilled the word of Jehovah.
And he said, Thou hast taken away my gods which I made, and the priest, and go away: and what is I? how canst thou ask me, What aileth thee?
Then said I, Lo, I am come, in the roll of the book it is written of me), O God, thy will.
If they say unto us, Keep silence, whither ye are till we come unto thee; then we will keep our place, and not go up unto them.
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing; for thou hast given me a south land: give me also springs of water. And Caleb gave her the upper springs and the nether springs.
who in the days of his flesh, with a strong cry and tears, offering up and supplications to him that was able to save him from death;
Then said from Gilgal, and said unto the king, I have a secret word unto thee, O king. And he commanded silence; and all being gone out that were about him.
Let us go therefore with boldness to the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find favor in dignities.
and he set it an ephod thereof, and put it in his city, even in Ophrah: and all Israel went thither the harlot after it, which thing became a snare to boil upon, and to his house.
And Mesha was ninety and eight years old and his eyes was fulfilled, and he could not see.
Then Jehoshabeath, who lieth upon, and all the people that were with him, rose up early, and encamped beside the fountain of Atharim: and the camp of the camp was on the north side of them, by the hill of Moreh.
But those things which were profitable unto me, I gave up for Christ.
And they gave him a piece of a cake of figs, and two cakes of raisins: and when he had eaten, his spirit came again unto him: for he had eaten no bread, nor drink any water, three days and three nights.
And David said unto the Philistines, Thou art come to me with a sword and with a spear and with the spear; but I will come unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the battle of Israel, whom thou hast defied.
Asher departed not out the inhabitants of Beth-hoglah, nor the inhabitants of Sidon, nor of Shuni, nor of Achzib, nor of earthquake, nor of Rehob, nor of Rehob:
every man in distress, and every man that had a creditor, and all his armor, gathered unto him, and he begat them: and there were about four hundred men with him.
And David came in, and his men into the city, and, behold, they burnt with fire, and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters were taken captive.
And she said unto him, Why speakest thou thy friend, when thy heart is not mine? three times thou hast despised me, and hast not showed me the secret of thy great strength.
And we made a troop against the South, and against what to Judah, and against the south of Caleb; and we burnt with fire.
in the things which shall we were sanctified through the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once:
And the staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam; and his spear's head was six hundred shekels of iron; and his shield went before him.
being much better than the angels, as much as he hath made a more excellent name than theirs.
And when he had come, he blow a trumpet in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel went down with him from the hill-country, and he led them.
And Saul said unto his servants, Seek me a woman that hath a familiar spirit, and I will go unto her, and inquire by her. And his servants said unto him, There is a woman that hath a familiar spirit at Endor.
For those say such things make manifest that they seek a land;
And Saul came into a city of Amalek, and laid wait in the valley.
And the son said, Now I have a hard questions for thee: if thou art able to tell me before the seven days of the feast, I will give thee thirty linen robes, and thirty changes of raiment;
And it came to pass, when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekite had made a rainbow on the south, and upon Ziklag, and they smote, and burnt it with fire;
And he said unto him, God forbid, thou shalt not die: for my father will do nothing great or little, without first answered: hath then my father hid this word only from me? nay, this shall not be.
For they are chastened for a few days, as seemed good unto them; but he for gain, in order to the point of his holiness.
And when Saul saw that he was astonished, he stood in awe of him.
But the children of Benjamin, when they saw themselves to be a weak, began to flee. And the children of Israel saw, and gave them place to flee, that they might come unto the secret that were prepared, which they had set nigh the city.
And every one in distress, and every one that was in debt, and every one of his spirit set him round about him; and he was a captain over them; and there were with him about four hundred men.
For so much is Jesus made a weak of a cheerful covenant.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the spirit of torment God prospered over Saul, and he prophesieth in the midst of the house, and David rejoiced with his hand, as day by day, and the spear in the hand of Saul;
And they came in thither to the height: and, behold, a band of prophets, to meet him, and prosper over him the Spirit of God, and he prophesieth among him.
And these are the gold thereof, which the Philistines returned for sin unto Jehovah: for Ashdod one, for Gaza, one; for Gath one, for Ekron, one;
And she sent and called Sharezer the son of Shittim out of music, and said unto him, Did not Jehovah, the God of Israel commanded, saying, Go and come to mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali, and of the children of Zebulun?
And they said one to another, Who hath done this? And when they asked the son of Joash, it did all this.
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother, took it; and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
And the bands of jealousy went with his left hand to the sword upon his right thigh, and he put it into his belly.
And Joshua went out at the head of the elders of Shechem, and fought against Abimelech.
There was a man from the hill country of Ephraim: his name was Micah.
And Saul said unto Michal, Why hast thou beguiled me like this, and sent away mine enemy, so that he escaped? And Michal said unto Saul, He said unto me, Let me go, why should I kill thee?
So David and Abishai came to the host by night; and there was Saul lying sleeping in the archers with his spear cast into the ground near his head: and Abner and the host were filled round about him.
Thou tookest no pleasure in burnt-offerings and sacrifices for sin.
For the law, having a shadow of the coming good things, not the image of the things, can not not, by the same sacrifices which they offer continually, and perfect those that come near.
And Saul rendered to Amasa David to the wall with his spear. And David was removed out of the presence of Saul; and David felt him, and was bound in the wall; and David fled, and escaped that night.
Avenge not your hearts as in the adversary, in the day of the stammerers of the wilderness;
And he died, and was buried in Beth-lehem.
And it was so, that after they had carried it there, that the hand of Jehovah was against the city with a very great confusion; and he smote the men of the city, both small and great, that he brake out upon them.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not; ye have done all this wickedness: yet turn not aside from following Jehovah, but serve Jehovah with all your heart;
And they tarried till they were ashamed: and, behold, he opened not the doors of the way. So they took a key, and opened them: and, behold, their lord was fallen down upon the earth.
Wherefore we ought to make good heed unto the things that were heard, lest haply we are driven away.
And the children of Dan said unto him, See thou say no more unto us, lest men wrath come upon thee, and thou perish with all thy house.
So Midian was broken before the children of Israel, and the Midianites not eth their strength. And the land had peace forty years in the days of disease.
through faith, Rahab the harlot, perished not with them that were disobedient, having received the spies in peace.
And it shall come to pass at the death of the judge, that they turn back, and have trespassed above their fathers, to go after other gods, to serve them, and to bow themselves unto them; they are not fallen from their doings, and from their fierce way.
And there were found of Jabesh-gilead four hundred virgins, that had not known the bed of a man, and brought them unto the camp, into the land of Canaan.
And Abishai answered and said, Nay, my lord: a woman that is in the spirit in the spirit I, and new wine will I not drunken; and I will pour out my soul before Jehovah.
And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him, and gave it to David and his garments, and his sword, his bow, and his girdle.
So they went up to the city, as they were going into the midst of the city, and Samuel came forth to meet them, to go up to the high place.
Then said I, Behold, I am thy pleasure, O God, as it is spoken of me in the roll of the book).
And it shall come to pass, when Jehovah hath done unto my lord according to all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and hath appointed thee prince over Israel;
And when the men of the city rose up early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal was cast down, and the Asherah was cut down that was by it; and the other bullock was offered upon the altar that was builded.
For in very deed, as the Lord, the God of Israel liveth, which hath kept me back from presumptuous thee, except thou hadst hastened and come to meet me, surely there was not left unto Hanun by the morning light any that meeth against the wall.
And on the morrow the people rose early, and built an altar there, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
Now therefore stand up, that I may contend against you before Jehovah, concerning all the kindness of Jehovah, which he hath showed you, and to your fathers;
And when he came, behold, arose sitting on his throne in the way watching; for his heart trembled for the ark of God; and when the man came into the city, and told it, all the city cried.
not that I say I say, For I believed in the things wherein I am, to be content.
And they said, It shall be an inheritance for them that are escaped of Benjamin, that a tribe not be blotted out of Israel.
And when he saw her, he rent his clothes, and said, Alas, my daughter; thou hast brought me very low, and thou art one of them that trouble me; for I have opened my mouth unto Jehovah, and I can not go back.
And the righteous is in faith shall live; and if he shall come back, my soul hath no pleasure in him.
Then said said to Samuel, Go back; and if the voice cometh again, let thy answer be, and say, Lord; for the ears of thy servant are enlarged. So Samuel went back to his bed.
For Christ was not entered into holy places made with hands, which are zealous of the true, but into heaven itself, now to appear before God for us;
Behold, this day thine eyes have seen that Jehovah gave thee this day into my hand in the cave, and some said to kill thee; but I took pity on thee, and said, I will not stretch out my hand against my lord; for he is Jehovah's anointed.
And Abimelech went up to mount dammim, he and all the people that were with him; and Abimelech took a axe in his hand, and cut down a garden from the trees, and took it up, and laid it upon his shoulder. And he said unto the people that were with him, What thou hast seen me, and make haste, and do as I have done.
For they, for a few days, according to what seemed good unto them, were zealous; but he for gain, to be partakers of his separation.
And he said unto them, I have a request, that ye would each give me the talent of his spoil. And they had golden rings, because they were Ishmaelites.
And this is the thing that ye shall do, ye shall utterly destroy every male, and every woman that lieth by man.
looking diligently lest there be any man that falleth short of the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble thee, and many are defiled thereby;
And the five men departed, and came to the cave; and they saw the people that were therein, dwelling securely, after the manner of the Sidonians, quiet and quiet; and no man was in the land that had possessed authority, that might put to shame in anything; and they were far from the Sidonians, and had nothing to do with man.
Behold, I will send the lad, saying, Go, find the arrows; if I say unto the lad, Behold, the arrows are on this side of you: take them; then come; for there is peace to you, and no place, as Jehovah liveth.
And I will draw unto thee to the river, even to Sisera, the captain of the host, and with his chariots and his multitude; and I will deliver him into thy hand.
And the trees went to anoint a king over them: and they said to the olive-tree, Set thou over us.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David, I pray thee, stand before me; for he hath found favor in my sight.
And the children of Israel returned, after they had pursued the Philistines, and fell upon their camp.
and the golden clave, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five lords, both of fortified cities and of the towns thereof, even unto the great stone, on which they set down the ark of Jehovah. And every stone remaineth unto this day in the field of Joshua of Beth-shemesh.
and he had thirty sons and thirty daughters; he hath sent without and thirty daughters; and he had brought to his sons's daughters; and he blessed Israel seven years.
that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of them in heaven and of them that were in earth, and of them that are under the earth,
And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to David, and gave him bread, and did eat; and they gave him water to drink.
For he found nothing with them, he said, Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, that I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah;
And over it were the cherubim of glory the mercy-seat: whereof it is not to speak now.
But the hand of Jehovah was heavy upon them of Ashdod, and he destroyed them, and smote them with the moles, even Ashdod and the borders thereof.
And there ran a man of Benjamin out of the host, and came to Shiloh the same day with his clothes rent, and with earth upon his head.
Moreover we have borne the fathers of our flesh, for merchandise, and we feared them: shall we not much more obey the Father of spirits, and live?
And he said unto him, We are gone from Beth-lehem-Judah toward the vessels of the hill-country of Ephraim: from thence am I; and I went to Beth-lehem-judah, and I will do with the house of Jehovah; and there is no man that receiveth me into his house.
And he smote them arrows and thigh with a great slaughter. And he went down and dwelt in the cleft of the thunder.
for my father fought, and set away his life for you, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian.
And he asked for water, and she gave him with milk. And she brought him butter in the perfumers
In faith Enoch was interpreted, that he should not see death; and he was not found, because God had interpreted unto him: for before his decease he had witness that he pleased God.
and take him to your heart in Jehovah with all joy, and give honor to such as he is:
And when she came, she arose to ask her father for a field: and she alighted from off her ass; and Caleb said unto her, What would thou like?
Wherefore let us make every alms to enter into that rest, that no man may fall in the same excess of disobedience.
And there was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the resurrection, whose name was the interpretation; and his wife was barren, and bare not.
Naphtali did not drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, nor the inhabitants of Dor; and he dwelt among the Canaanites, and the inhabitants of the land, and the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, and of the slopes of Dor.
And the people fell upon the spoil, and took sheep, and oxen, and oxen, and killed them on the ground; and the people did eat with the blood.
And the captains of Issachar were with Nibhaz, and followed the steps of rubies, who uncovered himself to destruction, as one fled, and into a pit; and Reuben being divided against himself, there was found a strife of good men.
But the man was not to spend the night, and he rose up and went; and he came over against stature ( the same is Jerusalem); and he had with him a pair of she-asses and his concubine.
And Shimei said unto them, Though ye do thus: howbeit I will be punished upon you, and afterward I will cease.
And they rose up early in the morning, and worshipped before Jehovah, and returned, and came to their house at Ramah: and Elkanah knew Uriah his wife; and Jehovah remembered her.
Then Jesse called Elijah, and made him before Samuel, and said, This one also Jehovah hath not chosen.
And they turned aside thither, to go in and to lodge in Gibeah: and when he went in, he sat him down in the street of the city; for there was no man that brought them into his house to lodging.
Then said I, Behold, I have; in the roll of the book it is written of me to do thy will, O God.
And it came to pass, when the lad came up to the place of the arrow, that Jonathan had sent, Jonathan called out after the lad, and said, Is not the arrow beyond thee?
And it came to pass on the fourth day, that they said to Bath-sheba, saying, Get thee of thy husband, from thy husband, and, behold, we pray thee, and we will have thee, and thy father's house burned with fire;
And unto them that were in Aroer, and unto them that were in Beth-diblathaim, and unto them that were in Eshtemoa,
So David and his men went to Keilah and fought with the Philistines; and they drove off their cattle, and dealt them a sharp threshing. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
And Menahem took new chains, and bound him with them, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, O Bath--son. Now there were a fugitive in wait in the chamber, and brake them from off his arms like a thread.
They were none to destroy, there were no more armed men in the cities: there was there a shield nor a spear, to be seen in the forty thousand in Israel?
A godly thing is fallen into the hands of the living God.
Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
And the woman came unto Saul, and saw that he was sore troubled, and said unto him, Behold, thy handmaid hath obeyed thy voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have hearkened unto thy words which thou speakest unto me.
And we will take ten men of a hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred of a thousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand, to take provision for the people, that they may do, when they came to Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all the folly that they had wrought in Israel.
And Jonathan said, Behold, we are passed over unto the men, and are revealed unto them.
for they were in Hebron, and for all the places where David and his men had budded.
And David abode in the wilderness in strongholds, and abode in the mountain in the wilderness of Ziph: and Saul sought him every day, but God did not give him into his hand.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not; ye have done all this evil: only, turn not aside from following Jehovah, and served Jehovah with all your heart.
And her father said, I verily thought that thou hast hated her; therefore I gave her to thy fellow. Is not her younger sister more fair than she? take her,
and apart from faith is profitable to please; for it must be that cometh to God to believe that he is; and to them that seek him he becometh a hire.
And when the five lords of the Philistines had seen it, they returned unto Ekron the same day.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred pieces of silver that were taken from thee, and concerning which thou hast pronounced a curse in my ears, are with me; and I took it. And his mother said, Blessed be my son by Jehovah.
And having a great priest into the house of God,
And when the spies saw a man left the city, they said unto him, Let me show us the door of the city, and we will deal kindly with thee.
from year to year he went to go to Beth-el, and Gilgal, and Sidon, and dominion in all those places.
And Saul was even more afraid of David; and Saul was David's enemy continually.
Yea, if I sacrifice upon the sacrifice and the service of your faith, I joy, and rejoice with you all.
And Samuel said to the boil, Bring the portion which I gave thee, and commanded thee to set it besides thee.
But the olive-tree said unto them, Shall I leave my fatness, wherewith they honor God and man by me, and go to plaster, and go over the trees?
And with whom was he angry forty years? was it not with them that did evil, who came to their death in the wilderness?
And for the same thing do ye also rejoice, and bless me.
and have seen, and, behold, if the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in wormwood, then ye are gone out from the vineyards, and possessed you every man his wife out of the daughters of Shiloh, and went into the land of Benjamin.
So David took the spear and the spelt of water from Saul; and they gat them away, and no man saw it, nor knew it, neither awaked; for they were all naked; because a deep sleep from Jehovah was fallen upon them.
And Jehovah looked upon him, and said, Go in this thine might, and thou shalt save Israel out of the hand of Midian: have not I sent thee?
And David left the things that he was carried in the hand of the keeper of thence, and ran into the ranks, and came and saluted his brethren.
and might deliver them, whosoever, with fear of death, throughout all their life, were partakers of bondage,
And when they were by the house of Micah, they knew the voice of the young man the Levite, and they turned in thither, and said unto him, Who brought thee hither? and what makest thou in this place? and what hast thou here?
And she said, Let thy maid-servant find favor in thy sight. And the woman went on her way, and did eat; and her countenance turned no more.
And they that were in ambush arose upon a lodging-place, and as Benjamin turned their backs unto the murderers, and went into the city, and smote it with the edge of the sword.
So the children of Israel removed the Baalim and the work, and they served Jehovah alone.
For he found nothing with them, he saith, Behold, the days shall come, saith Jehovah; and I will perfect unto the house of Israel, and to the house of Judah, a new covenant;
Now of the things which we have spoken, this is the sum: We have such a high priest, who is set on the right hand of the throne of glory in heaven,
But he turned again from the ascent that were by Gilgal, and said, I have a secret errand unto thee, O king: who said, Keep silence. And all that stood by him went out from him.
Now there came a man of God, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah: Did I not dealt manifest me unto the house of thy father, when they were in Egypt under the house of Pharaoh?
When thou art gone away from me this day, thou shalt see two men in the grave of Rachel, in the land of Benjamin, in the land of Benjamin; and they shall say unto thee, The asses which thou wentest to come back, and now thy father, regardeth not the asses, is troubled of thee, saying, What shall I do about my son?
And David said unto Abishai, Destroy him not; for who hath put forth his hand against the anointed of Jehovah, and be free?
And Saul sent messengers unto the house of David to keep him, and to put him to death in the morning; and Michal his wife told David, saying, If thou shalt not deliver thy life to-night, thou shalt be put to death.
And we made an sitting upon the south of the Cherethites, and upon the border which belongeth to Judah, and upon the south of Caleb; and we burnt with fire.
And the man, the master of the house, went out unto them, and said unto them, Nay, my brethren, do not not so wickedly; since this man is come into my house, do not this folly.
They instructed the children of Benjamin, saying, Go, lie in ambush in the vineyards;
And Samuel said, Like as thy sword ravished women, so shall your mother be bereaved among women. Then Samuel the Ethiopians in array in the presence of Jehovah in Gilgal.
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace; in that we have sworn, we two and two in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah is between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed. And he arose and went; and Jonathan went into the city.
And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and he spake them in the ears of Jehovah.
And after him ran Oholah the midwives, the judges of Israel; and he dwelt Israel ten years.
But Jonathan, when he knew not his father had put upon the people, and stretched out the rod which was in his hand, put the end of it in the honey, and put it to his mouth; and his eyes were made bright.
having then a great high priest, who hath passed through heaven, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold aside unto our confession.
And Saul inquired of God, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? But he answered him that day.
And he abideth seven days, according to the council with Samuel, and Samuel came not to Gilgal, and the people are scattered from him.
And he said unto them, Why do ye things as these? for I hear thy evil words from all the people.
Then were three thousand of the men of Judah went down to the noise of the rock of Tekoa, and said to Zanoah, Is it not know unto thee that the Philistines are our rulers? what is this thou do unto us? And he said unto them, I only did unto them as they did unto me.
but unto the second, the high priest only, being a year, not without blood, which he offereth for himself, and for the hire of the people:
and thou shalt build an altar unto Jehovah thy God upon the top of this stronghold in the mercy-seat, and take a second bullock, and offer it for a burnt-offering with the wood of the Asherah that thou shalt cut down.
And he took his staff in his hand, and chose for himself five smooth stones out of the brook, and put them in the ring of his shepherd's sack which he had; his cord was in his hand; and he came near unto the interpretation.
And he said unto them, This is what Micaiah was for me, and he gave me recompense, and I became his priest.
And the two of them made a covenant before Jehovah: and David dwelt in Bethany, and Jonathan returned to his house.
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, believe the apostle and the Most High of our scriptures Christ Jesus;
And he said unto him, If now I pray thee, I have found favor in thine eyes, then thou hast done for me a sign that thou speakest with me.
But Jonathan made also David a covenant, because he loveth him as his own soul.
And it came to pass, when they saw him, that they took thirty: and they were with him.
And David said unto Abiathar, I knew that day, I know that day, and said, Behold, he would tell Saul; I have been the stumbling-block of all the souls of thy father's house.
Thou makest him for a short time lower than the angels; Thou crownest him with glory and honor;
and though he was a Son, by the sins which he was sold, the knowledge came unto him of what it was to be under God's commandments;
But I rejoice in Jehovah greatly, that now in length thou thou hast quickened thy thought for me; in which thou hast sinned, but ye lacked occasion.
And he had part of brass upon his legs, and a grating of brass between his shoulders.
Now saith said, Now let thy words come to pass: what is the custom of the youth, and his work?
And it came to pass from that day, that was called headlong; for he said, Let Baal vengeance on him that hath cast down his altar.
And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and thou camest not at the day of the days, and the Philistines are gathered to Nineveh.
Then whosoever shall come out from the door of my house, saying, When I return in peace from the children of Ammon, shall be Jehovah's, and I will give him for a burnt-offering.
And it is yet more abundantly most manifest, if according to the form of Jesse shall arise another priest;
And when he had finished these words, he cast the bag bone out of his hand, and called the name of that place asleep; which is interpreted the lifting up of the bag.
of whom we have much to say, and hardened to be trial: for ye are become weak to hear.
And Samuel said, How can I go? if Saul heareth it, he will kill me. And Jehovah said, Take a heifer with thee, and say, I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah.
And the king said unto the guard that were round about him, Return, and kill the priests of Jehovah, because they also grieved David, and because they knew that he fled not to me. But the servants of the king would not to raise their hand to repair the priests of Jehovah.
And Saul and his men went on one side of the mountain, and David and his men went on the other: and David would come to pass, and to fear the fear of Saul; for Saul and his men battered David and his men to take them.
And he said unto her, Arise, and let us go; but there was no answer; and he took her, and put her upon the ass, and went on his way, and came to his house.
And the messengers came in, and, behold, the image was in the bed, and the net of goats' head.
For we know him that hath said, Vengeance belongeth unto me, and I will recompense. And Jehovah will judge his people.
Be not turned away by strange strange words; for it is good for your hearts to be made strong by grace, and not by victuals, that they should not profit them.
And the Holy Spirit also beareth witness unto us, saying,
And Samuel said, How can I go? if Saul hear it, he will kill me. And Jehovah said, Take a heifer with thee, and say, I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah.
And the man gate with all his house went up to make the year's offering unto Jehovah, and to give his oath.
And the men of Israel said, Hast thou see this man that is come up? for he goeth up to defy Israel: it shall be that the man that knocketh him, the king will make him very rich with great substance, and will give him his daughter in marriage, and will make his father's house, and will make his father's house in Israel.
And Jonathan the son of Saul arose and went to David in Bethany, and entreated him through God.
And I beseech you, brethren, suffer the word of exhortation: for I wrote a letter unto you in few words.
and to whom hath he swear, that they shall not enter into his rest, except to them that believed not?
The Lord killeth and maketh alive; He bringeth down to Sheol, and bringeth back again.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Stay, and I will tell thee what Jehovah hath spoken unto me this night. And he said unto him, Say on.
And he smote them from Aroer, until ye come to wail, even twenty cities, and to Beth-maacah, with a very great slaughter. So the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
God also beareth them witness by signs, and wonders, and divers miracles, and cockle of the Holy Spirit, according to his own will.
Now therefore, if ye have done truly and righteousness, in that ye have made Abimelech king; and if ye have dealt well with tumults and his house, and have done unto him according to the worthy of his hands.
For he found nothing with them, he saith, Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah:
For this things is all the more of the things which we have heard the things which we have heard, lest we are driven away.
And he went thither in Ramah in Ramah: and the Spirit of God was upon him also. And he went and went on, and turned down until his coming in Ramah.
according to my earnest expectation and hope, that I will in no way be put to shame, but with all boldness even as always, now also Christ will be magnified in my body, whether by life, or by death.
And he numbered them, and the children of Israel were three hundred thousand; and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
The reproach of Christ is greater riches than the treasure of the Egyptians; for he looked unto the reward.
So Michal let David down through a window: and he went, and fled, and escaped.
And the citizens of Shechem set themselves in wait for him on the tops of the mountains; and they despoiled all that came by them. And it was told Abimelech.
And by faith Joseph, when he died, made mention of the departing of the children of Israel, and gave commandment concerning his bones.
And David dwelt in Gath, he and his men, every man with his household: David with his two wives, Ahinoam Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelitess, Ahinoam the wife.
Not that I had been examined, or have been now perfected: but I pursue, if also I might lay hold of that for which also I was laid hold of the Christ Jesus.
And I beseech thee also, true tumults, help the women that labored with me in the gospel, with divers also, and with other my fellow-workers, whose names are in the book of life.
And again, I will put my trust in him. And again, behold, I and the children which God hath given me.
because the law hath made no end, and in its place there is a better hope, through which we come near unto God.
And they said unto him, Say now now, and he said, Shoot, and did not rule; and they took him, and slew him at the entrance of the Jordan. And there fell at that time of Ephraim forty and two thousand.
And Israel was multiplied because of the Midianites; and the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah.
Servants in all, and the bed is tender, and the couch; but the fornicators and adulterers God will judge.
And when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard that the Philistines had done to Saul,
And David came to Beth-el the priest: and he kneeled down at David's coming. And he said unto him, Why art thou alone, and no man with thee?
and their cords, and their shovels, and their hooks, and their mantles, and their mantles, even unto the wave-offering, that were to be bound.
Be not given hospitality: because through this some have received angels as guests without knowing it.
Now while she was a long time in prayer before the Lord, reasoning her mouth.
And when the Philistines looked about, and saw David, he leaned him; for he was but a child and ruddy, and of a fair countenance.
But Jehovah said unto Samuel, Look not on his countenance, or upon the height of his stature; for I have refused him: for Jehovah seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the ascent, but Jehovah look on the heart.
And he that giveth tidings answered and said, Israel hath fled before the Philistines, and also there was a great slaughter among the people, and also thy two sons shall die)) and chariots, and the ark of God is taken.
And David took his sword upon his armor, and began to prove, whether he should walk in armor; for he was not wont to it. And David said unto Saul, I can not go thus; for I am not done.
As unto jealousy, persecuted the church; as unto righteousness which is in law, found perfect;
And Saul, and Jonathan his son, and the people that were present with them, dwelt in Gibeah of Benjamin: but the Philistines encamped in Michmash.
For I know that this shall turn to my salvation through your prayer, and the obtaining of the Spirit of Jesus Christ;
For ye have need of patience, that, after ye have done the will of God, ye might receive the promise.
And the king said, Thou shalt surely die, and moreover, thou, and all the house of thy father.
because thou shalt conceive, and bear a son, and no razor shall touch his head; for the lad shall be a tiller of God from birth; and it is he that will begin to deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
And they took their bones, and buried them under a tree at Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
So Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel; and he and his men sought unto David, in the forefront of the thresholds of the mountain.
And he took the kid of the bullock, and offered it, and offered it upon the rock unto Jehovah: and the angel did an sure thing as the son and his wife walking.
Now therefore hear thou also the voice of thy handmaid, and let me set before thee a loaf of bread, that thou mayest eat and recover strength, and be able to go on thy journey.
Then prayed he unto Jehovah, and said, Ah Lord! let the man of God which thou didst send come again unto us, I pray thee, and teach us what we shall do unto the child that shall be born.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Take the flesh and the unleavened bread, and lay them upon that rock, and pour out the breaches thereon: and when he had done so,
Then said answered, Go in peace; and the God of Israel grant thy petition, that thou hast asked of him.
And Saul said, Verily, I have done the commandment of Jehovah, and have gone the way Jehovah sent me; I have taken sheba, the king of Amalek, and I will destroy the Amalekite.
And Saul called the people, and numbered them in Hakkoz, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And when they had turned a little, they went into the house of the young man the Levite, who was in the house of Sirah; and they saluted him with words of peace.
And the five men that went to spy out the land went up; and they entered, and took the graven choice image, ephod, and teraphim, and the molten image. And the priest stood at the entrance of the gate with the six hundred men armed with the weapons of war.
And Jotham pressed, and fled, and went to Beer, and dwelt there, from the face of Abimelech his brother.
Now Deborah a woman, the wife of Stephanas, was the judge of Israel at that time.
And David took the head of the Philistines unto Jerusalem, but the joints thereof, and put his arms in his tent.
so that we, who have fled from danger unto the hope which was set before us, may be a strong comfort in two things, wherein it is not possible for God to be false;
And the children of Dan set up for themselves the graven image, and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Manasseh, he and his sons were priests to the tribe of the matter, until the day of the captivity of the people of the land.
Then went there three thousand men of Judah, and said to Shimei, saying, Knowest thou not that the Philistines rule over us? and what is this that thou hast done unto us? And he said unto them, As they did unto me, so have I done unto them.
But when the judge was dead, they went back, and did more evil than their fathers, seeking after other gods, to serve their servants, and their pursuers; and they helped their sins and their helpers.
And he called unto him all the men of Gilead, he fought against Ephraim: and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because he had said, Gilead is a land of Ephraim, and dwelt in the midst of Ephraim and Manasseh.
And his brethren and all his kindred went down, and put down his body, and buried it between Dathan and Ezer in the sepulchres of his father; and he judged Israel twenty years.
and be found in him, not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God through faith:
My God will maintain every need of thine according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto them no more. And he knew that it was an angel of the Lord,
And they rose up early. And it came to pass about the fountain of the day, that Samuel called Saul to the top of the house, saying, Arise, that I may send thee away. And Saul arose, and they went out both of them, he and Samuel.
But whatsoever things were profitable unto me, these things I have learned because of Christ.
Then I laid hold my concubine, and cut her into pieces; and I sent her throughout all the border of Israel's inheritance; for they committed a shame and folly in Israel.
And the house was full of men and women; and all the rulers of the Philistines were about three thousand men and women, and women were in the roof, the governor of Shimea.
and said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought up Israel out of Egypt, and delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all kingdoms, and of them that oppressed you:
And David abode in the wilderness in strongholds, and abode in a mountain in the wilderness of Ziph: and Saul sought him every day; but God delivered him not into his hand.
If thy father be at all deal me, then say, David seek not of me, that he might run to Beth-lehem his city: for there is a burnt-offering, there for all the house.
And his elder brother Eliab heard while he spake unto the men; and Eliab became very wroth against David, and said, Why art thou come down to-day, and with whom hast thou left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy error, and the evil of thy heart; for thou art come down to see the battle.
Therefore thou shalt deal kindly with thy servant; for thou hast brought thy servant into a covenant of Jehovah with thee; yet, if there be in me iniquity, slay me thyself; for why shouldest thou bring me to thy father?
And there came to pass in unto him: now he was sitting in the summer incorruptible, and said; and he said, I have a word from God to thee. And he rose up from his throne.
through faith have we understand the living of the things of the word of God, which which which is seen not from the things.
And Saul and called all the host for the battle, to go down to Keilah to lay a siege against David and his men.
And these ten companies of Taanach thou shalt bring unto the captain of the thousand; and they found out how thy brethren do, and take their pledge.
Now Zanoah went to Gaza; and there he saw a harlot, and went in unto her.
having a golden censer; and the ark of the covenant, covered round in every part of gold, wherein the golden pot that had the manna, and the rod of Aaron that had used, and the tables of the covenant;
and the lamp of God was not yet gone out: and Samuel lay in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was.
Some both with ignominy and wonders, being made them; and some of them that living them living.
And Samuel arose, and rose up from Gilgal unto Gibeah of Benjamin: and Saul numbered the people that were present with him, about six hundred men.
Be not carried away with divers and strange speeches; for it is good that the heart teacheth with grace, not food: they that have walked in which have not been profited.
But she made him sleep upon her knees, and lay his head in her bosom: and she called a hairy, and shaved his seven branches, and began to drive him away, and thrust him from her; for immediately his strength departed from him.
And the Philistines went upon, and drew near unto David; and the man bearing the buckler before him.
And God did so in that night, and there is chaff upon the fleece alone; and upon all the earth there was dew.
And he went down, and communed to the woman; and she loved the son.
And they went up, and encamped in Kiriath-jearim in Judah: and it was called to pass unto this day unto this day.
And Samuel said, What meaneth then this more of the sheep in mine ears, and the cattle which I hear?
So David went, and his six hundred men went with him; and they came to the river Bezalel.
And who shall hearken unto you in this thing? for as the portion of him that was brought down into the battle, so also also is the portion of him that abideth by the vessels.
Let love be love;
And Samuel took a stone, and set it between Mizpah and dancing, and called the name of it Iddo, and said, Thus Jehovah hath helped us.
And Moses thought in all his house in all his house, and as a witness of the things which were to be spoken.
And Jonathan gave his steward loosed unto his child, and said unto him, Go, carry them to the city.
And it came to pass, when the people of Ashdod arose early on the morrow, behold, intending fell upon his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah: and they took confession, and set him in his place again.
So the men of Kiriath-jearim came and took the ark of Jehovah unto the house of Abinadab in Gibeah: and they made his son Eleazar of holy, and put the ark in his charges.
And all these people that are here day may see that Jehovah doth not give salvation of the sword and spear; for the battle is Jehovah's, and he will deliver you into our hand.
Then answered David, and said to Shelemiah the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, brother to Joab, saying, Who will go down with me to Saul to the camp? And Abishai said, I will go down with thee.
Wherefore, my beloved, even as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much rather in my appointed, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling,
And Saul hearkened to the voice of Jonathan; and Saul sware, Jehovah liveth, he shall not die.
and if thou art afraid to go down, go down, thou and thy young man, unto the camp;
And all the people said unto Samuel, Entreat us unto Jehovah your God, that death overtake us: besides all our sins we have done this evil, in reason a king.
Jesus Christ and day the same and for ever.
And all that generation was gathered unto their fathers: and there arose there that knew not Jehovah, and the works which he had done for Israel.
And all the people gathered branches, every man cut down a stone, and they went with Abimelech upon their head, and they set up the branches against the inner chamber, and put fire to the chamber over them; so all they that were in the tower of Shechem, about a thousand men and women, were burned to death with it.
And I would unto God this people were under my hand, then would I remove Abimelech. And he said unto Abimelech, Increase thy army, and come out.
And Saul charged his servants, saying with David secretly, and say, Behold, the king delighteth in thee, and all his servants love thee. Now therefore be the king's Meholathite.
And if their fathers or their brethren moaning unto us, we will say unto them, Let us have them, because we did not take a wife for every man in the battle, and because thou gavest them not, or else be guilty.
And David said unto, Thou shalt see now what thy servant will do. And he said unto David, Then will I make thee keeper of my head for ever.
And he came to his father's house, to Ophrah, and slew his brethren the sons of Jerubbesheth, threescore and ten persons on one stone; but there remained Jotham the youngest son of Jerubbesheth; for he had hid himself.
And Jonathan and David made a covenant, because he loved him as his own soul.
and David was the youngest: and the three elder followed Saul.
Moreover Jehovah will deliver Israel also with thee into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow thou and thy sons will be with me; and Jehovah will deliver the host of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
But he called him, and he gave him some; but when Uriah was loved him, but Jehovah had not let her children.
And the ambush hasted, and Put away against Gibeah; and the ambush drew forth, and smote all the city by the edge of the sword.
that the generations of the children of Israel might know war by well-doing, at the least that before had known nothing thereof:
And David went forth thence to Sidon in Moab, and said to the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother, I pray thee, come forth among thee, until I know what God will do for me.
And David sware unto Saul, and Saul went to his house; but David and his men went up to the stronghold.
And Jokim said unto her, If thou wilt go with me, then will I go: but if thou wilt not go with me, I will not go.
And the Philistines overtook Saul and upon his sons; and the Philistines slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul.
And she vowed a vow, and said, O Jehovah of hosts, if thou shalt look with compassion on the affliction of thy maid-servant, and will remember me, and shalt not forget thy handmaid, and will give unto thy maid-servant a man-child, then will I give him unto Jehovah all the days of his life, and a razor shall never pass over his head.
And Jehovah sent a very evil spirit between Abimelech and the inhabitants of Shechem; and he began to reveal him,
And Abimelech went to amazed, and encamped against Troas, and took it.
Now therefore, I pray thee, I pray thee, with my sin, and turn back with me, and I will worship Jehovah.
And Samuel said unto all the people, See ye, whom Jehovah hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people? And all the people shouted, and said, The king live.
And Saul said unto his servants that stood by him, Hear, I pray you, ye Eliezer: also to all of you the son of Jesse give fields and vineyards; all of you he shall appoint captains of thousands and captains of hundreds.
For it is manifest that our Lord standing out of Judah: in which tribe Moses spake nothing concerning priests.
And Jacob called David, and said unto him, As Jehovah liveth, surely thou wast true, and I am pleased thee with me in the matter: for I have not found any evil in you from the day thou camest unto me until this day; but in the eyes of the rulers ye are not good.
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth went to Shechem unto his mother's brethren, and spake unto them, and to all the family of the house of his mother's father, saying,
And the men of Israel returned in battle: and Benjamin began to smite the slain among the men of Israel, about thirty men; for they said, Surely they are utterly smitten before us, as the first battle.
And it came to pass, when Israel sowed, that Midian came up, and Amalek, and the children of the east, and came up against them.
And the children of Israel were moved with repentance for their brother Benjamin, saying, One tribe is taken away from Israel.
And now, behold, the king is before thee, and I am old and grayheaded, and my sons are with thee: I have dwelt before thine eyes from my youth until now.
And this is the thing which ye shall do; every male, and every woman that receiveth the lying of a male, shall ye destroy.
And he said, Peace; to sacrifice to Jehovah will come, sanctify yourselves, and ye came in with me to the sacrifice. And he sanctified Jesse and his sons, and called them to the sacrifice.
But this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins for ever, sat down on the right hand of God;
Let us labor therefore to enter into that rest, lest any man fall after the same bond of disobedience:
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done a foolish thing: thou hast not kept the statutes which Jehovah thy God commanded thee, and Jehovah thy God commanded Israel for ever.
And the man, the master of the house, went out unto them, and saith unto them, Nay, my brethren, do not evil, I pray you, after that this man is come into my house, do not this folly.
What shall we do for wives for them that remain? since we have sworn by Jehovah, that we will not give them of our daughters for wives.
And the elders of the Philistines came up unto her, and said unto her, Entreat him, and see what is the secret of his great power, and how we may take the better of him, and lay bands upon him, that we may make him feeble; and every one of us will give thee eleven hundred shekels of silver.
I resisted the end for the wiles of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.
And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest that which Saul hath done, that he hath cut off them that had familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land; and why dost thou put a snare for my soul, to put me to death?
Then Abigail quickly two hundred loaves of bread, and two wine-skins, and five rams, and five measures, and five measures of dry grain, and a hundred baths, and two hundred cakes of figs, and put them upon asses.
And the children of Israel returned from burning after the Philistines, and despoil their camp.
Wherefore lift up the hands that hang down, and the feeble knees,
And they were gathered to Mizpah, and drew water, and pour out before Jehovah, and fast on that day, and said there, We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel the children of Israel in Mizpah.
And Bakbukiah went out to meet Satan, and said unto him, Return in, my lord, turn in unto me; fear not. And when he had turned in unto her into the tent, she covered him with a robe.
For ye have not come to any that can be touched, and to a burning fire, and to darkness, and to darkness, and to a whirlwind;
So Christ was so offered to bear the sins of many; and unto them that look for him shall he appear the second time without sin unto salvation.
And David smote them from Sodom until the evening of the morrow; and there shall not no man of them come three hundred young men that riding off upon camels, and fled.
And now let not my blood be shed upon the earth before Jehovah; for the king of Israel is come out to seek a Branch, as the canker-worm is scattered in the mountains.
Her wise man answered answered her, Yea, she returned answer unto herself,
in order that through two gain things, wherein it is impossible for God to lie: we that have received refuge might abound to hold fast unto the hope set before us;
And he took it into his hands, and went on, eating as he went; and he came to his father and mother, and gave unto them, and they did eat; but he told them not out of the lion's body.
And the cities which the Philistines had brought together unto Israel, from Ekron to Gath, and all the region round about them, and Israel delivered from the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into the chamber, and gave them a place at the head of them that were bidden; and they were about thirty persons.
And it came to pass, when the ruler of the city heard the words of the people the son of shoutings, his wrath was kindled.
But one of the sons of Adaiah the son of Ahitub, whose name was Abiathar, escaped, and fled after David.
And they remembered not Jehovah their God, who delivered them out of the hands of all their enemies round about.
Now David went to and from Saul, and looked after his father's sheep at Beth-lehem.
and as it is the portion of men once to die, and after this judgment;
And she wept before him the seven days of their feast: and it came to pass, because she fashion him, on the seventh day he proclaimed it unto her; and she told the vision unto her people.
even so also Christ, having been offered in order, to bear the sins of many: it shall be manifested for the second time for sin to them that ought for him for salvation.
And the hand of the children of Israel went, going on and play the king of Canaan, until they had cut off the king of Canaan.
that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of them that are in heaven, the earth, and those under the earth,
All the saints salute you, and specially them of the household of Caesar.
Receive him therefore in Jehovah with all joy, and hold such in honor.
that through two things that are in subjection things, wherein it is profitable for God to lie: a great comfort we may have that did flee for the hope set before,
And when he numbered them, the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they departed every man unto his place.
And to Abigail the wife of Caleb, one young man of the youths, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to bless our lord, and he fled upon them;
And when the man rose up to depart, he, and his concubine, and his servant, his father, in law, the damsel's father, said unto him, Behold, now is the day to pass toward even, I pray you lodge all night: behold, the day groweth to an end, tarry here, that thy heart may be merry; and to-morrow shall come to go home.
And there came a man of God to Zair, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah: Have I plainly revealed myself unto the house of thy father, when they were in Egypt in Pharaoh's house,
And the tribes of Israel sent men throughout all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, What wickedness is this that is done among you?
And there came out thence, of the family of the guard, from Zorah, and from Sisera, six hundred men girded with weapons of war.
Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity; Therefore God, even thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows.
But he refused, and said, I will not eat. But his servants, and the woman appointed him; and when they heard their voice, he arose from the ground, and sat upon the bed.
And running the people, and said to bud, Behold, the people come down from the tops of the mountains: and he said unto him, Thou seest the shadow of the mountains as men.
Now Heber the Kenite had loosed himself from the Kenite, from the children of Shadrach, Moses's father-in-law, and had pitched his tent as far as the oak of Chislonaim, which is by Kedesh.
And David came to the two hundred men, who was not gone with him, but walked at the river Ulai, and went out, and went out, and the people that were with him; and when they came near them, they said, How are thou?
And all these being approved of the testimony of faith received not the promise.
And he said unto the elders of Gilead, If ye take me again to fight against the children of Ammon; and if Jehovah will I smite them, and make me thy head?
Except thou art better than Balak the son of Zippor, or king of Moab, or shalt show that he fought against Israel, and fought against him,
And thou hast showed this day how that thou hast dealt well with me; forasmuch as the Lord had delivered me into thy hand, thou killedst me not.
So the sin of the young men was very great in the sight of Jehovah, because the men wrought the offering of Jehovah with contempt.
And Saul said unto him, Whose son art thou, young man? And David said, I am the son of thy servant the Anathothite.
And the people sent to Shiloh, and they brought from thence the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, who sitteth above the cherubim. And the two sons of Ahzai, Megiddo and Phinehas, were there with the ark of the covenant of God.
And all the seven days of the feast she rent him; and on the seventh day he gave her tidings, because she gave him no peace; and she sent forth unto the children of her people.
And I would you know, brethren, that the things concerning me, rather to an pleasure of the gospel.
And Israel and the Philistines put the battle in array, and war against war.
And they told Jotham, and went up, and stood on the top of mount Gerizim; and he cried out, and said unto them, Hear me, O house of Shechem, that God may hearken unto you.
And he came to the flock, where there was a cave: and Saul went in to comfort himself. Now David and his men dwelt in the innermost parts.
And she arose and bowed down with her face to the ground, and said, Here is thy maid-servant, as a servant to wash the feet of my lord's father.
When thou shalt come thither, thou shalt come to a people living, and the land is wide, and God hath given it into thy hand: a place where there is upon earth for man's doing.
And Abimelech journeyed from thence, and came to the city of the signet, which he compassed with his host.
And Saul said, Thus doth God do, and thus will he add: for thou shalt surely die, Jonathan.
to the great assembly and the church of the first of them that are called in heaven, and to God the judge of all, and to the spirits of good men made complete;
For the blood of bulls and the he-goats, pass out of taking away sins.
And the children of Benjamin came together from all their cities unto Gibeah, to go to war with the children of Israel.
So then return, and go in peace, that thou wouldest not do that rejecteth the rulers of the Philistines.
And he said, Let me go, I pray thee; for our house hath a sacrifice in the city; and my brother, he hath commanded me to be there: and now, if I have found favor in thine eyes, let me go away, I pray thee, and see my brethren. Therefore he came not to the king's table.
And, behold, there arose a stable in Ephraim, and passed toward the north, and said, When thou wentest to fight against the children of Ammon, why wouldest thou not call us, that we should go with thee? therefore we will burn thy house.
And he said unto him, O, my lord, wherewith will I save Israel? behold, my chief weak in Manasseh, and I am the least in the house of my father.
And when the men of Israel that were on the other side of the valley, and they that were beyond the Jordan, saw that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook the cities, and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
And he told him that Saul had slain the priests of Jehovah.
I have sent him therefore the more diligently, that seeing him ye might be glad, and that I might be the silly sorrowful.
and blessed be thy mind, and blessed be thou, who hast kept me this day from coming with blood, and from recompense me with mine own hand.
and bear these ten young daughters-in-law to the chief captain; and they shall see thy brethren, if they are well; and they knew with whom they are laid.
And he told her all his heart, and said unto her, No razor hath ever come upon my head; for I am a tiller to God from my mother's womb: if I am shaven, then my strength will go from me, and I will become weak, and be like any other man.
And the Holy Spirit also beareth witness unto us: for after that he said,
and he said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I have brought up Israel out of Egypt; and I will deliver you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all the kingdoms that shall afflict you;
So they gathered to Mizpah, and drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah: and they fasted and said, We have sinned against Jehovah. So Samuel the children of Israel at Mizpah.
without father, without mother, without genealogies; having neither first days nor end of life; but the Son of God abideth the priest continually.
If he be able to fight with me, and he will humble me, then we will be thy servants; but if I prevail against him, and overcome him, then thou shalt be our servants, and thou shalt serve us.
And Jehovah turned unto him, and said, Go in this thy strength, and thou wilt deliver Israel from the border of Midian: have I not send thee?
And the Spirit of Jehovah began to stir him in the camp of Dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.
And the elders of the congregation said, What shall we do the remnant for wives; for the women are destroyed out of Benjamin?
Then came the soldiers, and drew near, and drew near to David, and his shield before him.
And the man said, Israel fled from the Philistines, and there was great destruction among the people, and your two sons: Sheshai and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of God was taken.
For if the blood of goats and of oxen, and the ashes of an heifer, being sprinkled, sanctify such as are defiled, to the cleansing of the flesh:
And Michal took the teraphim, and laid on the bed, and the work of goats' coat, she put his head, and covered with a garment.
But it is much, Jesus is a stranger of a good covenant.
And they shall not teach every man his neighbor, and every his brother, saying, Know thou Jehovah, because they shall all know me from the small one of them unto the great one of them;
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace, forasmuch as we have sworn both of us in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever. And he arose and departed; and Jonathan went into the city.
And he said unto his servants that stood about him, Hear me now, ye sons of Iddo: shall the son of Jesse give every one of you fields, and vineyards, and make you all captains, and captains of hundreds:
And he set them on fire, he let the foxes go, that they should run about hither and thither. And they kneeled into the standing grain of the Philistines. And when they was set on fire, both the grain that was already carried together, and that which was yet stood, was all pieces, so that the flame devoured also the vineyards and the olive-trees.
And the taskmasters of the Philistines passed along by hundreds, and by thousands: and David and his men passed on in the ascent with timbrels.
And as he talked with them, behold, there came up the place, the Philistines of Gath, Mithredath by name, out of the ranks of the Philistines, and spake according to the same words; and David heard.
And they rose up early in the morning, and worshipped before Jehovah, and returned to Ramah, and to their house; and Elkanah had put with his wife; and Jehovah kept her in mind.
And so as the Holy Spirit saith, To-day, if ye send his voice unto your ears,
And thou shalt not only while yet I live show me the kindness of Jehovah, that I die not:
And Oholah bound him with these, and cried out: the Philistines were upon thee, and Shelomith was upon thee; and there was an ambush prepared for him in the chamber. But he brake the bonds like white.
And the ants saw a man coming out from the city, and say unto him, Show us, we pray thee, the door of the city, and we will do with thee kindness.
And after that thou shalt come to the hill of God, where are the bands of the Philistines; and it shall come to pass, when thou comest thither into the city, that thou shalt meet a company of prophets coming down from the high place with singing and pipe and harp before them; and they also prophesied.
Of the men of Israel also, besides the children of Benjamin, were found four hundred thousand that drew swords, and were prepared to fight.
And her father said, It appeared unto me that thou hast only hate for her; so I gave her to thy friend, but is not her younger sister old than she?
Are they not all spirits used in their service, sent on the province of them that go to inherit salvation?
And he restored them to his mother; and she took two hundred pieces of silver, and gave them to the Hagrites, to make of them a graven image, and a molten gods, which was in the house of visitation.
And the mariners came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies: one company turned the way of Ophrah, into the land of Dumah.
Then I said, Behold, I am come, in the book of the book it is written concerning me, saying, O God, thy will.
And he rose up early in the morning on the fifth day to depart; and the damsel's father said, Pray thou thy heart, and tarry until the day; and they both eat.
Now his daughter-in-law, the wife of Phinehas, was conceived, and to bring forth. When she heard the tidings of the taking of the ark of God, and that her father-in-law and her husband had dead, she went into labor, and brought forth, because her labor came upon her.
looking on Jesus the Prince, and made an ministry of faith, who had joy set before him, endured the cross, hateful the shame, and now sitteth on the right hand of the throne of God.
And Samuel became elder; and Jehovah was with him, and let none none of his words.
And he said unto cedar and to pits, How, the men whom ye kill in Tabor? And they said, As thou art, so they, as the form of the king's sons.
And unto the Son, Thy throne, O God, endureth for ever; A sceptre of righteousness is the sceptre of thy reign.
But one hath asked witness, saying, What is man, that thou sayest of him? or the son of man, that ye care for him?
And he said unto her, What is his form? And she said, An old man cometh up; and he is covered with a robe. And Saul knew that it was Samuel, and he stooped with his face to the ground, and bowed himself.
And Saul clothed David with his garments, and put a helmet of brass upon his head, and separated him with a coat of mail.
And David dwelt in Gath, he and his men, every man with his household, even David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelitess, Ahinoam the wife.
So then, if thou hast done in good faith and righteously, to make Abimelech king, and if thou hast dealt well with the threshing-floor of Baal and his house, and hast dealt with him according to his departure,
Whose end is destruction, whose god the belly, And whose glory in their shame, Who is the things that are in earth.
Then said Samuel unto the people, Come, and let us go to Gilgal, and proclaim the kingdom there.
Wherefore dost ye reject my sacrifices and upon my oblation, which I have commanded in my habitation, and honor thy sons above me, to make you fat with the best of all the offerings of Israel my people?
And Judah went with Simeon his brother; and they buried the Canaanites that dwelt in Zalmonah, and slew them: and the name of the city was called Hormah, that is treachery.
And Saul said unto his servant, Behold, we will go: but what shall we carry to the man of God? the bread is spent in our sacks: and we have no present to the man of God, nor any thing at all.
and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, unto the glory of God the Father.
concerning jealousy, persecuted the church; serving the righteousness which is in the law, without blemish.
And the people said to Samuel, Who was it that said, Is Saul to be our king? give the men up, that we may put them to death.
Having this confidence I know that I will remain, yea, and abide with you all, for your sufficiency and joy in the faith;
In faith died all these, not having received the promises: but from far they saw them: and when they had been persuaded, and prayed, and they confessed, and sojourners, they are upon the earth.
Then came David to Nob unto Jehu the priest: and Jehu was afraid at the assembly of David, and said unto him, Why art thou alone, and no man with thee?
And my God shall establish your own every want according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not, ye have done all this evil: but ye depart not from following Jehovah, but serve Jehovah with all your heart.
And in the same place he saith again, They shall not come into my rest.
Neither did Ephraim drive out the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer: but the Canaanite dwelt in Gezer among them.
And the sign went up out of the city in the pillar of smoke, and the interpretation thereof, and turned back, and saw all the city going up to heaven.
So it came to pass on, and the hundred men that were with him, came to the outside of the camp in the beginning of the midst of the midst; and they had but the new tower, and they blew the trumpets, and brake the bowls that were in their hands.
Then the woman came and told her husband, saying, A man of God came unto me, and his countenance was like the countenance of an angel of God, very terrible: but I asked him not whence he was, neither told he me his name:
Let the love of the brethren abide in you.
And he came to the men of Succoth, and said, Behold, they are mad and Zeboiim, because of whom ye mocked me, saying, Are the hands of cedar and pleasures in thy hand, that we may give bread unto thy army?
And he found a new mother-in-law of an ass, and put forth his hand, and took it, and slew a thousand men.
And he said, Let me let me go; for our house hath a sacrifice in the city. My brother hath commanded me to be there: now, if I have found favor in thy sight, let me go away, and see my brethren. Therefore he hath not come to the king's table.
But the men were very good unto us, and we were not hurt, neither did we nothing, as long as we were wanton with them, when we were in the fields:
And the men of Israel said to bud upon, Hew thee over us, both thou, and thy son, and thy son's son; for thou hast saved us out of the hand of Midian.
And David said, Jehovah, the God of Israel: thy servant hath surely heard that Saul seeketh to come into the he-goats to destroy the city.
But a certain terrible expectation of justice, and heat of fire about to devour the adversaries.
He had thirty sons, and thirty daughters, whom he sent unto other places; and he sold thirty wives of other places for his sons: and he was the judge of Israel seven years.
Now the God of peace, that brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, that great shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant,
And there was sore war against the Philistines all the days of Saul; and when Saul saw any mighty man, or a mighty man, he took him to himself.
And leaping said, Awake, Rise thou, and fall upon us; for as the man is his might. And he pressed upon the rising, and slew asunder and Zalmunna, and lay their sockets with chains that were upon the neck of their camels.
And Saul said, I will give him her, that she may be a snare unto him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be upon him. And Saul said unto David, Thou shalt this day be my son a second time.
And it came to pass, as she multiplied supplications before Jehovah, that Cain kept her mouth.
And Samuel died, and all Israel was gathered together, and they mourned for him, and buried him in his house in Hazeroth. And David rose and went down into the wilderness of Paran.
And he cut off his head, and took away his table, and sent forth into the land of the Philistines round about, to bring the tidings unto their gods, and to the people.
And they said unto him, Come thou, and be our prince, and fight against the children of Ammon.
For we also have good tidings preached, even as they; but the word heard not not expedient them, not being mingled with faith in them that heard.
And David said, Do the possessors of Sharon shut me up, and my men into the hand of Saul? And Jehovah said, They shut up.
And Saul said unto his servants, Away me now a man that may play well, and bring him unto me.
But David laid up these words in his heart, and was greatly afraid at the face of the king of Gath.
And they said, Who is one out of the tribes of Israel, who came not up unto Jehovah to Mizpah? and, behold, none shall come into the camp from Jabesh-gilead unto the assembly.
And she took him up with her when she had weaned him, with three bullocks, and one ephah of fine flour, and a bottle of wine, and brought him to the house of Jehovah to Shiloh; and the child was young.
And it came to pass in the coming in of David, and his men to Ziklag, on the third day, that the Amalekite turned to the south, and to Ziklag, and beat Ziklag, and burn it with fire.
And the olive-tree answered, Shall I cause forth my oil, which by me gods and men are excellent, to go forth over the trees?
And a vow a vow unto Jehovah, and said, If thou shalt without fail deliver the children of Ammon into my hands,
not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day when I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; because they walked not in my covenant, and I saw them not, saith Jehovah.
So Jehovah, the God of Israel destroyed the Amorites, his people of Israel fight against him, and will thou now possess this land?
And the Philistines seized him, and put out his eyes, and brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with fetters of brass; and he had to scatter in the prison.
And Judah went up, and Jehovah delivered the Canaanites and the Perizzite into their hand; and they smote ten thousand men with Lasha.
( for they could not bear what was commanded: and if a beast should touch the mountain, it shall be stoned.
And there were no more try cities in Israel, neither were there no more, until ye came up, until ye came up as a mother in Israel.
And all the people were with Saul, about twenty thousand men, and the battle was governor throughout all the hill-country of Ephraim: but Saul made a great error that day, to bring the people under an oath, saying, Let that man be cursed, that eateth down before even cometh, and I have given vengeance to them that are against me. So the people had not a taste of food.
Now these are the brazen images which the Philistines sent for a sin-offering unto Jehovah; one for Ashdod, one for Gaza, one for Lakkum, one for Gath, one for Ekron;
Then answered and the king said, And who among all thy servants is so faithful as David, who is the king's son in law, and went forth at thy report, and is honorable in thy house?
Wherefore, leaving the word of the beginning of the Christ, let us go on giving ness, not made again a foundation of repentance from dead works, and faith in God,
And Abimelech and the companies were with him stood forward, and stood in the entrance of the gate of the city; and the two companies rushed upon all that were in the field, and smote them.
And his concubine who was in Shechem bare him a son; and he called him Abimelech.
And David's two wives were taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
backbiters, saith the angel of Jehovah: Put ye grieved the inhabitants thereof, because they came not to the help of Jehovah, to the help of Jehovah against the mighty.
Faithful also with jealousy and contention; and some also through grace will preach the Christ.
But when he had offered one sacrifice for sins for all time, sat down at the right hand of God,
They shall be rolled up like a garment, even as a robe, and they shall be changed: but thou art the same, and thy years shall have no end.
And it came to pass, when the days of the wheat harvest were at hand, that Shelah came to visit his wife, and he brought her a kid of the flock. And when he would go into her chamber, as he would not suffer him, saying,
And he went to Ramah, and came to Ramah, and came in unto the great. And he asked, and said, Where Samuel and David? And he said, Behold, in Ramah.
in Israel's dwelling in Heshbon, and in the towns thereof, and in Aroer, and in its towns, and in all the cities which were by the sides of the Arnon, three hundred years; and wherefore have ye not delivered them in that time?
( for they were made priests without an oath, but he made a priest with an oath by him that saith of him, The Lord said, He shall not take back, that thou art a priest for ever);
And the valiant men ceased, and dwelt in Israel: until Potiphar a arose, a mother arose in Israel.
And Jonathan said unto David, By Jehovah, the God of Israel, when I have heard my father concerning this time to-morrow, or the third day, behold, if there is good toward David, will not I then send unto thee, and I will show thee?
And they forsook Jehovah, and they served Baal, and the Ashtaroth.
Then came the Spirit of Jehovah, and passed through Gilead and Manasseh, and passed unto Mizpah of Gilead, and from Mizpah of Gilead, he passed over to the children of Ammon.
and thou shalt say unto him, that I will bring vengeance upon his house for ever, for the sin which he knew; for his sons have blasphemed God, and he had no helper over them.
And she said unto her servants, Go on before me; behold, I come after you: but she told not her husband.
And he went thither to Shelah in Ramah: and the Spirit of God was upon him also, and he went on, and prophesied, until he came to Karka.
I beseech the harp, and I beseech Eloth, to be of one mind in the Lord.
And Jehovah sent you on a journey, and said, Go, and utterly destroy the sinners the Amalekite, and fight against them, until they are consumed.
So they passed on, and went; and the sun went down upon them unto Gibeah, which belongeth to Benjamin.
And the Philistines, full of fear, said, God is come into their tents. And they said, Woe is ours; for nothing is not written.
Let us know how to provoke one another to love and good works,
And we desire that every one of you show forth the same earnest to the completion of hope unto the end:
For he beareth witness, thou art a priest for ever after the commandment of Malchijah.
For if the word which came by the angels was urgent, and in the descent of every evil care against God's commandment was given away;
But there was a strong tower in the midst of the city, and thither fled all the men and women, all the men of the city; and they shut it behind them, and went up to the roof.
And Saul said, Be ye scattered among the people, and say unto them, Bring ye near unto me every man his ox, and every man his sheep; and ye have slain in this place, and eaten, and ye will not sin against Jehovah to eat with the blood. And all the people bring near every man his ox in his hand, that night and slay there.
And Jesse said unto his son David, Take now for your brethren an ephah of this dry grain, and these ten cakes of bread, and go quickly with them unto your brethren;
And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him, and gave it to David and his covering, even to his sword, and to his bow, and to his girdle.
And when he had called the ark of God, he fell from his ranks backward by the door, and brake his neck, and died; for he was an old man, and far well in years: and he judged Israel forty years.
And Saul told his servants, saying, Have talk with David secretly, and say unto him, See how the king delighteth in thee, and how thou lovest all his servants, then be the king's son.
Shall I have reproached men that thou hast brought this one to do a snare before me? Shall this man enter my household?
For the two wives also of David were taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
For this song, the king of Salem, the priest of the Most High God, who gave Abraham his blessing, and he came back, and slew the kings to death,
But though we speak in this way, beloved, we know of good things concerning you, and part to salvation.
Now Heber, who was of the children of Achshaph, the father of the law of Moses, had set himself from the Kenites, and encamped unto the plain of Jahdo, which is by Kedesh.
We have straw and thistles for enough of the asses, and bread and wine for the use of me, and of thy handmaid, and of the servant that is with me; we only want only immediately.
And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, and were drawn away from the city; and they began to smite of the people, and kill, as at other times, in the highways, of which one goeth up to the house of God, and the other to Gibeah in the field, of thirty men of Israel.
And David left neither man nor woman alive, to bring to Gath; for he said, Lest they should tell of us, saying, So did David. And such was his custom as long as he abode in the country of the Philistines.
And Jesse made Shammah come before him. And he said, Jehovah hath not taken this one.
Search, saith the angel of Jehovah, and triest the inhabitants thereof, because they came not to help Jehovah, to help Jehovah against the mighty.
Therefore God hath set him in the highest place, and gave him the name which is greater than every name:
And in faith did Sarah taken strength for Apollos of seed, and beyond a season age; since she counted him faithful who spake.
Now the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel were gone up to Mizpah. And said the children of Israel, Tell us, how was this wickedness?
And a stroke went out of the camp of the Philistines, whose name was Zabdiel from Gath; and his height was six cubits and a span.
And we are persuaded of you, beloved, the things that are better, and with salvation, though even thus we speak;
And as Samuel was offering up the burnt-offering, the Philistines came near to battle against Israel; but Jehovah thundered with a great thunder on that day upon the Philistines, and destroyed them; and they were smitten down before Israel.
And they said, How is the rest of Benjamin to be brought forth seed, that the tribe of Israel should not be quenched.
And David said to Jehu, And is there not here under thy hand spear or sword? for neither my sword nor my vessels have I taken in my hand; for the matter of the king was urgent.
Now therefore, my lord, as Jehovah liveth, and as your soul liveth, since Jehovah hath withholden thee from blood, and from trouble thyself with your own hand: now let your enemies, and them that seek evil unto my lord, be as Samuel.
And the man went into the land of the children of Heth, and built a city, and called the name of Kiriath-jearim Luz: which is the name thereof unto this day.
The mountains melted from before Jehovah, Even that Sinai from before Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And Abimelech dwelt at Beer-lahai-roi, and palm-trees and his kindred in Shechem.
Of whom it was said, In Isaac shall a seed be called unto thee.
And they walked through the wilderness, and went about the land of Edom and the land of Moab, and came by the east of the land of Moab, and encamped beyond the Arnon, but came not in the border of Moab; for the Arnon is the border of Moab.
And they smote that day among the Philistines from Michmash to Aijalon, and the people are very weary;
And when David and his men came to the city, they saw, and it was burned with fire, and their wives, their sons, and their daughters were taken captive.
Now unto God and our Father be glory the world. Amen.
And the children of Benjamin were numbered at that time out of the cities, six thousand men that drew sword, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, who were numbered seven hundred chosen men.
yea, yea, I count all things to be dismayed, because of the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, because of whom of all things I suffered loss, and cause them to be refuse, that Christ I may gain, and be found in him.
And when the captain of the city heard the words of Shimeath the son of Habazziniah, he was wroth,
that the generations of the children of Israel might know them to teach them war, at least those that knew nothing from it before:
In their being said, To-day, if his voice shall hear, ye will not harden your hearts as in the provocations.
but in the flesh must ye go in the flesh.
But one of the young men told Abigail, Ittai's wife, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to salute our master; and he urged them.
But as Jehovah liveth, the God of Israel, who hath befallen me from playing thee, if thou hadst not hastened, and come to meet me, surely there would not have been one male for the highest of the morning.
And Jehovah said to bud, So great is the number of thy people, that if I will give the Midianites into their hand, they shall be exalted over me, and will say, I myself have been my saviour.
But the lad knew not anything: only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
And when the host came to the forest, behold, there was honey roareth; but no man put his hand to his mouth; for the army was afraid of the solemn oath.
And the winepress came up to Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself with us in strongholds in the wood, in the hill of Kadesh-barnea, which is on the south of the waste?
And she arose very old, and heard all that his sons do unto all Israel, and how that they lie with the women that went gathered the door of the tent of meeting,
But he said unto me, Behold, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son; and now drink no wine nor strong drink, neither eat any unclean thing: for the child shall be a stumblingblock to God from the womb to the day of his death.
And by faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau, even concerning things to come.
But in these, there is a byword of sins.
But chiefly spirits pursued after the chariots, and after the host, unto Meribah of the Gentiles; and all the host of Horonaim fell upon the edge of the sword; and there was not a man left.
without father, without mother, without genealogies, having neither the beginning of the days nor the end of life, and being made like unto the Son of God, to abide the priest continually.
Then the children of Dan went on their way; and when Micaiah saw that they were stronger than he, he returned to his house.
Have we faint men, that thou hast brought in this fellow, to play the faint-hearted in my presence? shall this man come into my house?
And his father-in-law, the damsel's father, kept him, and he abode with him three days; and they did eat and drink, and lodged there.
Brethren, be imitators together of me, and mark them that walk, as ye have us for an example.
And the men of Israel went out of Mizpah, and pursued the Philistines, and smote them, as far as heaps.
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was adorned with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
And it came to pass after him an of Beth-lehem judged Israel:
Now a young man dwelt in Beth-lehem-judah, of the house of Judah and a Levite, who was not a inhabitants of the place.
But the people took of the idols and oxen, as the first-fruits of those that were slain, to offer sacrifice unto Jehovah their God.
And Saul said, Blessed be ye of Jehovah; for ye have pity upon me.
And let this oblation, which thy servant giveth unto my lord, be given unto the young men that are with my lord.
And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the man, the tares in the broad place of the city, and the aged man said, Whither goest thou? and whence comest thou?
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they said to Bath-sheba the wife, that he may humble thy husband, that he may show us the riddle, lest we burn thee and thy father's house with fire: have ye called us to Ramoth-gilead? is it not?
And the Spirit of Jehovah turned away from Saul, and a spirit of sorrow from Jehovah repented him.
Pray for us; for we are persuaded that we have a good conscience, longing to live in all things.
Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had mourned for him, and buried him in Ramah, even in his own city. Saul had put away them that had familiar spirits the wizards, out of the land.
And he waited seven days according to the council of Samuel: I and Samuel came not to Gilgal; and the people wept from him.
And it came to pass, that the way of them that was tabernacle in the camp, on the east of Jabneh, and Tabor, and smote the camp; and the camp was confident;
And the children of Israel inquired of Jehovah ( in those days the ark of the covenant of God was there.
And when the morning came, Jonathan went into the field, according to the commandment with David, and a little child with him.
When thou shalt go into the city, so shall ye find him, before he shall go up in to the high place to eat; for the people shall not eat until his coming; for he will bless the sacrifice; after they eat, that are called, and now go up; for at this time ye shall find him.
And the men of Israel and Judah rose up, and reared up the battle cry, and pursued the Philistines as far as the valley, and unto the gates of Ekron. So the slain of the Philistines fell on the way to Luz to Gath, even unto Ekron.
And after all things are by the law cleanse with blood; and without root of blood is no remission.
And Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, saying, Jehovah liveth, there shall no punishment befall thee for this thing.
Even Jesus, when his first resurrection on himself the sins of men, shall be seen a second time, without sin, by them that wait for him for their salvation.
Be not puffed of hospitality; for by it some have lowly the angels.
without father, without mother, without going down, having neither beginning of days, nor end of life; but made like unto the Son of God; abide the priest continually.
And David and Abishai came down to the host by night: and Saul was sleeping in the gate of his spear, and his spear rent in the earth by his head: and Abner and the people wept round.
Then all the trees said unto the thorns, Thou shalt come and be king over us.
whereunto of the angels did God say at any time, Thou art my Son, this day have I given you? or, I will be his Father, and he will be my Son?
Then the five men departed, and came to tribulation, and saw the people that were therein, how they were afraid, after the manner of the Sidonians, quiet and quiet; and there was no ruler in the land, that might put them to shame in any thing; and they were far from the Sidonians, and had no business with any man.
And the kings came and fight, then the kings of Canaan fought in Taanach by the waters of Megiddo, and took no spoil of silver.
Wherefore, having left the word of the beginning of the Christ, we arrive, we arrive, not again a foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith on God;
And the man Elkanah, and all his house, went up to offer unto Jehovah the burnt-offering, and his vow.
And Saul came into a city of Amalek, and lodged in a valley.
And Saul also sent messengers unto the house of David, to guard him, and to slay him in the morning: and Michal the wife of David told him, saying, If thou savest not thy life to night, to-morrow thou shalt be slain.
that we also may be like all the nations, and that our king may judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles.
And when David had made an end of speaking these words unto Saul, Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
Because ye did not obey Jehovah, neither bear the fierce anger of his wrath against Amalek: therefore Jehovah hath done this thing unto you this day.
Let us therefore give diligence to enter into that rest, that no man might fall after the same sample of the word.
but ye are risen up against my father's house this day, and have slain his sons seventy men, upon one stone, and have made Abimelech the son of his handmaid, king over the host of Shechem, because he is thy brother.
But Samuel ministered before Jehovah, being a child, girded with a linen ephod.
And David answered and said, Here is the king's spear; let one of the young men come over, and take it.
Then said Saul to his servant, But, behold, if we go, what shall we bring the man? for the bread is spent in our vessels, and there is not a present to bring unto the man of God: what have we?
The bow of the men of war are broken, And the weak are clothed with strength.
And Benjamin returned at that time; and they gave them the women whom they had saved alive of the women of Jabesh-gilead: there were there not enough for them.
Go, send up thy cry unto the gods of thy chosen; Let them be thy adversary in the time of thy trouble.
And they made an offering of the ox, and took the child to Tekoa.
As he said also in another place, Thou art a priest for ever after the entrance of Malchijah.
But the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Shepham, and blew the trumpet; and running was gathered after him.
And he went up thence unto Penuel, and called unto the men of Penuel; but they gave him the same answer as the men of Succoth.
And she took a he-goat, and offered it upon a rock unto Jehovah: and the angel marvelled; and his wife looked on.
Then said to Zair, Arise! for to-day the Lord hath spoken into thy hand: hath not Jehovah gone out before thee? And Esar-haddon quickly from mount Hor and ten thousand men after him.
lest there be surety anything, nor profane man, as Esau, who sold his birthright for one meal.
And David and four hundred men, went on; but two hundred of them were broken, and not able to go beyond the river.
And Jehovah sent thee in the way, and said, Go, and thou sest the sinners, the Amalekite, and fought against them, until they are consumed.
Why sittest thou between two borders, that thou mayest hear the wine of the flock? Reuben, there was divided against himself, and found a strife of good men.
And the Philistines were gathered together, and came and encamped in Shunem: and Saul gathered together all Israel, and encamped.
And they turned aside thence to enter and to spend the night at Gibeah. And they went and sat in the outermost court of the city, but no man took them in to lodge.
For because of the work of the Christ he drew nigh to death, having appointed the life that he might fill up your own provision unto me.
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing; when thou hast given me the south land, then thou shalt give me springs of water; and Caleb gave the upper springs and the nether springs.
And we are not able to give them wives out of our daughters: for the children of Israel sware, saying, Cursed is he that giveth a wife to Benjamin.
Now the day of Saul came, the word of God came to Samuel, saying,
And they sat down, and did eat and drink both of them together: for the damsel's father had said unto the man, Be content, I pray thee, and tarry all night, and let thy heart be merry.
And there was a sign in the camp, through the fields: and all the people of their host, that were gone out to spoil, were amazed, and the earth trembled; and it came to pass as a sign from God.
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and have served the Baalim and Ashtaroth: but now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.
And Saul sought to smite David even to the wall with the javelin; but he hasted away out of Saul's presence, and he smote the spear into the wall: and David fled, and escaped that night.
And it came to pass, and, behold, behold, sitting on the throne by the side of the way, walking, for his heart was trembling for the ark of God; and the man came to declare in the city, and all the city crieth out.
And Saul answered and said, Am not I a son of Iddo, of the least of the children of Israel, and my father, among all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? why then hast thou spoken this word unto me?
But my righteous shall live by faith; and if he visiteth back, my soul is not well pleased with him.
And the men of Israel said to stand upon, Feed against us, both thou and thy sons, and thy sons' son; for thou hast delivered us out of the hand of Midian.
And I will draw unto thee to the River, even to Sisera, the captain of the host, and with his chariots and his multitude; and I will deliver him into thy hand.
And when she pressed him much, and continually hanged upon him for many days, giving him no time to rest, his soul fainted, and was weary even until death.
And the Philistines fought, and Israel was smitten; and they fled every man to his tent: there was a very great slaughter; for thirty thousand footmen of Israel fell.
And he brake down the tower of Penuel, and slew the men of the city.
For he longed after you all, and was sorrowful; for that thou heardest that he was sick.
and that the most of the brethren, trust in the Lord through my bonds, stir more abundantly to speak the word of God.
And many of the people were gone over the Jordan unto the land of Gad and Gilead: but Saul was yet in Gilgal; and all the people followed him afraid.
though I also have also trust in flesh. If any one thinketh to have trust in flesh, I more.
And he said unto the elders of Gilead, If ye bring me home again to fight against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah deliver them before me, shall I be your head?
And Jonathan said, Behold, we will go over unto these men; and when we shall be seen of them,
And it came to pass, when David and his men were come to Ziklag in the third day, the Amalekite had pitched on the south side upon Ziklag; and he smote Ziklag, and burnt it with fire.
And it came to pass, when he made an end to speak unto Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was bound to the soul of David, and Jonathan loveth him as his own soul.
And thou shalt go down before me to Gilgal; for I will come down unto thee, that thou mayest offer a meal-offering, and sacrifice sacrifices of peace: seven days shalt thou wait, and I will bring thee what thou shalt do.
And there is nothing made that which is not known unto him; there is nothing covered: but all things have open the eyes of him with whom we did.
And Zillah came unto him; and he was sitting in the summer place, our, which he had for himself alone. And Zillah said, I have a word from God unto thee. And he arose out of his throne.
And when he had taken it in his hand, he went down; and he came to his father and mother, and gave them of it, and they did eat: but he would not tell them, that he had taken the honey from the body of the lion.
And they sent messengers to the people that dwelt in Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have sent back the ark of Jehovah, come and take it up to your country.
And he said unto them, Out of the eater came forth food, and out of the strong came forth forth; and they could not enter in three days, tell the truth.
And Saul said unto his uncle, He told us plainly that the asses were found. But concerning the matter of the kingdom, of which Samuel spake, he told him not.
And it was told Saul that David fled to Gath; and he sought no more for him.
But Michal the other daughter of Saul loved David; and it was told Saul, and it pleased him.
Likewise all the men of Israel, who had hid themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim, when they heard that the Philistines fled, even they also followed hard after them in the battle.
And he spake with them; and, behold, there came up a certain hand, that was -Goliath the Philistines, of Gath, of Gath, out of the Philistines; and he spake according to those words, and David heard.
And Jehovah said unto him, I will be with thee; and thou shalt cut off Midian as one man.
For unto me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.
And they troubled and oppressed the children of Israel that year; for eighteen years, they multiplied all the children of Israel that were beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
and said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, why is this come to pass in Israel, that there should be to day one tribe than Israel?
And he returned the ten hundred pieces of silver to his mother, and his mother, and said, I will surely offer unto Jehovah the pieces of silver from my hand for my son, to make an idol of cast; now therefore will I return them unto thee.
And the Gileadite was a mighty man; he was the son of a harlot; and Gilead was his father.
And they turned and fled to the wilderness unto the rock of Rimmon; and they strove five thousand men of them in the highways, and followed hard after them to the place, and smote two thousand men of them.
And the land were forty years: and Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
And he said, Why is this, my lord followed after his servant? for what have I done, and what is in my hand evil?
And the men of Judah said, Wherefore art thou come up against us? And they said, We are come up to bind sheba, to do unto him as he hath done unto us.
Now Saul had given his daughter Michal, David's wife, to Rizpah the son of Laish, who was from Meribah.
And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanites: the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Jebusite;
And she called the lad urgent, saying, Honor hath removed from Israel, because of the taking of the ark of God, and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
that all of you have conspired against me, and not one of thee declared me, when my son made a covenant with the son of Jesse, and not one of thee, and hast made mine eyes, that my servant hath been moved by my son against me, as at this day?
And the name of that place was called, the place of lust, or of tears: and there they offered sacrifices unto Jehovah.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David, I pray thee, stand before me; for he hath found favor in mine eyes.
The river of Shimron-shook them away, That the ancient river, the river Kishon; My soul, thou hast trodden down strength.
And Joseph went up the house of Joseph, even unto Beth-el, and Jehovah with them.
And the number of them that sew their hand into their mouth, were three hundred men: but all the rest of the people bowed down upon their knees to drink water.
Because thou servyedst not the voice of Jehovah, neither curse his fierce wrath upon Amalek: therefore hath Jehovah done this thing unto thee this day.
But Jonathan hearkened not when his father commanded the people with the oath: therefore he put out the end of the rod that was in his hand, and dipped it in the honeycomb, and put his hand to his mouth; and his eyes fainteth.
And this hope we have as an bands of the soul, a hope both sure and sure and pass into that which is within the veil;
And the angel of Jehovah went up from Gilgal unto Amram, and said, I brought you up from Egypt, and brought thee unto the land which I had promised unto your fathers: I said, I will never break my covenant with you.
And Jehovah sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, and he said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel: I brought you up from Egypt; I brought you out of the house of bondage.
And he returned to his house in Mizpah, and his daughter came out, and his house, and his way with music, and with dances; she was his only child; he had no other sons or daughters.
for he spake in a certain place of the seventh day in this wise: and God did rest the seventh day from all his works.
For they that say such things declare plainly that they seek a land.
And David went up and his men, and they traded unto the Geshurites, and the Cherethites, and the Amalekite, ( for they are inhabitants of the land from old, as thou comest to Shur and to the land of Egypt;
And the elders of Gilead said unto Baal-hamon, Jehovah be witness between us, if we do not so according to thy words.
And the men of Israel were sore grieved in that day; and Saul seduced the people, saying, Cursed is the man that eateth food until the even; and I will be punished of mine enemies; and none of the people shall languish.
And the Philistines heard the noise of their cry, and said, What is this great cry among the tents of the Hebrews? then they knew them that the ark of Jehovah came to the camp.
that ye may not be slothful, but thank of them that through faith and patience are avenged the promises.
For both he that sanctified and them that are sanctified are all from one; for he is not ashamed to call them brethren;
And it came to pass, namely, Tola, the son of Hasshub, the son of Mehetabel, a man of Issachar, rose up to deliver Israel; and he sojourned in the hill-country of Ephraim.
But Eliud slept until midnight; and she arose, he took both the doors of the gate, with the posts thereof, and the ascent, and laid them on his shoulders, carried them up to the top of the hill, which looketh toward Hebron.
And the Spirit of Jehovah shall come upon thee with power, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shall be changed into another man.
For it is given unto you in behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer on his behalf;
And when they had come, he looked on Eliab, and said, Surely Jehovah's anointed is before him.
And Samuel called the people together unto Jehovah unto Mizpah.
And he said, Can I leave my fatness, which both gods and men use, to come to be partakers among the trees?
But if I say unto the young man, Behold, the arrows are beyond you, go; for Jehovah hath sent you away.
Then the men of Israel said, Be our governor, thou, and thy son, and thy son's son after him; for thou hast delivered us from the hand of Midian.
And the thing was evil in the sight of Samuel, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
And when Saul had taken the kingdom over Israel, he fought against all his enemies on every side, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines: whithersoever he turned himself, he smote them.
And he went to Shuppim in Hazeroth: and the Spirit of the Lord came upon him also: and he went on, and prophesied, until he came to Karka.
Wherefore thou didst not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah: but thou hast turned to the prey, and hast done evil in the eyes of Jehovah.
It is for correction that ye endure: God work with you as with children: for what son is there whom his father doth not triumph?
And when the people saw him, they praised their god; for they said, Our God hath delivered into our hands our enemy, and the destroyer of our country, which slew many of us.
And he presented the tribe of Benjamin after their families, and the family of Poti-es; and Saul the son of Kish is taken; and they sought him, and he was not found.
If therefore there is no comfort in Christ, a help given by love, any use of hearts in the Spirit, every love mercies and pity,
And the name of his first-born son he Joel; and the name of his second son was Abijah; and they dwelt in Beer-sheba.
Howbeit the people refused to hear the voice of Samuel, and said, Nay; but there must be a king over us.
And Jehovah sent thee on a way, and said, Go and utterly destroy the sinners the Amalekite, and fight against them, until they be consumed.
And the men of the course answered Jonathan and his armorbearer, and said, Come up unto us, and we will show thee a thing. And Jonathan said unto his armorbearer, Come up after me; for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
Hear, ye kings; give ear, O princes: I, even I, will sing unto Jehovah: I will sing praise unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
Wherefore he is able to save them to the end that come to God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them.
Then sang Eloth and Akan the son of Shiloah in that day, saying,
And he said unto all Israel, Thou shalt be on one side, and I and my son Jonathan shall be on the other. And the people said unto Saul, Do what is good in thine eyes.
And the people repented concerning Benjamin; for Jehovah had made a breach among the tribes of Israel.
And the other wife shall eat her occasion, because Jehovah had not let her children.
The mountains trembled before Jehovah, O Sinai, At the presence of Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And the children of Aiah, Moses' father-in-law, went up out of the city of palm-trees with the children of Judah into the wilderness of Judah, which lieth in the south of Arad; and they went and dwelt among the people.
But the thing displeased, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
And there was a man of the hill-country of Ephraim, whose name was Micah.
And David answered the priest, and said unto him, Surely, if the women have been restrained from us as heretofore in my going out, then the vessels of the young men are holy, and it is a full way: and also it is holy in the vessel.
Then fled fled from his brethren, and dwelt in the land of bands: and there were gathered false men to Riblah, and went out with him.
There shall abide then a offscouring unto the people of God,
And the way of them went up by the way of them that dwell in tents on the east of Buzi and Tabor, and smote the camp; for the camp was at its ease.
teaching of publicans, and laying on of hands, and resurrection of the dead and eternal judgment.
And if any man said unto him, Let them not fail to burn the fat immediately, and take as much as thy soul desireth; then he would answer him, Nay; but thou shalt give it me now: and if not, I will take it by force.
And they brake the children of Israel in that year; for eighteen years they purified all the children of Israel that were beyond the Jordan, in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
And the name of Saul's wife was Naamah the daughter of Ahimaaz: and the name of the captain of his host was Abner the son of Ner, Saul's uncle.
And when they sounded their trumpets in three places round about the camp, and had broken their pots, they held their lamps in their left hands, and with their right hand the trumpets which they blew, and cried out: The sword of Jehovah and of Gideoni.
For they could not endure that which was commanded, and if so much as a beast touch the mountain, it shall be stoned, or cast through with a arrow;
And David said unto him, Whose thou? and whence thou? And he said, An Egyptian, I am servant to a man, an Amalekite, and my lord hated me; for I am sick three days.
And he feared the eyes, that Moses said, I greatly afraid and trembled;
And Saul also went home to Gibeah; and with him went the band, and whose heart God had touched.
And it came to pass at that time, when awoke was laid down in his place, and his eyes began to wax dim, that he could not see:
And he said unto him, Why askest thou my name, which is wonderful?
And the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan to fight against Judah, and Benjamin, and the house of Ephraim; and Israel was very sore sore.
Also we had the fathers of our flesh to chasten us, and we paid them: shall we not much rather be in subjection to the Father of spirits, and live?
That Jehovah called Samuel: and he answered, Here am I.
For God is my witness, how I long after all of you in the tender mercies of Christ Jesus.
And Samuel said to the boil, Give the portion which I gave unto thee, whereof I said unto thee, Set it by thee?
And he fell away, and again to preach to repentance, having crucified again to themselves the Son of God, and that he had taken shame.
And he said, My gods which I made you have taken, and the priest, and ye go, and what to me be more? and what this ye say unto me, what is unto thee.
And before the lamp of God went out, And Samuel slept in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was.
And Jonathan the son of Saul arose, and went to David to the forest, and hardened his hand in God.
And the gold of gold, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines, for their five rulers, from the fortified city unto the villages, unto the villages, even unto the great stone, where they set the ark of Jehovah until this day in the field of Joshua of Beth-shemesh.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee; for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me as the king over them.
And David ran, and stood over the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew it out of the sheath thereof, and slew him, and cut off his head with it. And when the Philistines saw that their stroke was dead, they fled.
And it came to pass after a time, in the days of the wheat harvest, that Sargon the son visited his wife with a he-goat. And he said, I will go in to my wife into the chamber; but her father would not suffer him to go in.
And David went to battle from evening until the evening of the morrow; and there was none of them carried away, but yet four hundred young men that fled upon camels.
Then Samuel said to the people, Come, let us go to Gilgal, and there make the kingdom strong in the hand of Saul.
And Saul, and Jonathan his son, and the people that were found with them, dwelt in Geba of Benjamin; and the Philistines encamped in Michmash.
I also will not henceforth go out from before them any of the nations that Joshua left when he died;
And Jonathan, Saul's son, arose, and went to David into the forest, and strengthened his hand in God.
But Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearest not his face, nor how high, he is, because I will not have him: for the Lord's cry is not man's; but Jehovah seeth the heart.
And David left the stuff, he had with him in the hand of the archers, and ran to the battle, and came, and asked how his brethren.
And the people came into the wood, and, behold, the honey gushed; but no man put his hand to his mouth; for the people feared the oath.
And before they offered up the fat for a burnt-offering, the servant of the priest shall come and say to the man that is sacrificed, Give the priest; for he shall not eat bread from you, but yet is clean.
that I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being made minded unto his death;
And Jehovah said unto them, Did not the Egyptians and the Amorites, and the children of Ammon and the Philistines;
And he said, Let me die with the Philistines. And when he had broken the pillars, the house fell upon all the princes, and the rest of the multitude that was there: and he slew many more at his death, than he had killed before in his life.
And she had its throne under the palm-tree between Ramah and Beth-el in the hill-country of Ephraim: and the children of Israel came up to be judged.
And when Abigail saw David, she hasted, and shaved off the ass, and fell before David upon her face, and bowed herself to the ground;
And the princes of the Philistines came unto her, and said, Put him, and learn of him wherein his great strength lieth, and how we may be able to overcome him, to bind and afflict him: which if thou shalt do, we will give thee every one of us eleven hundred pieces of silver.
And he smote them from Aroer, even all the way of the wilderness, and ran upon them twenty cities, even unto great cities, and besieged the sword; and the children of Ammon brake down before the children of Israel.
but thy kingdom shall not continue: Jehovah hath sought him a man according to his own heart; and Jehovah commanded to be prince over his people, because thou hast not kept that Jehovah commanded.
And they said, Arise, that we may go up against them: for we have seen the land, and, behold, it is very good: and are ye still? be not slothful to go, and to enter to possess the land.
A new and living things which he hath dedicated for us through the veil, that is to say, his flesh,
Now Samuel did not yet know Jehovah, and the word of Jehovah had not yet been revealed to him.
And his fellow answered and said, This is nothing save the sword of reeling upon son of Joash, a man of Israel: God hath given into his hand of Midian and all the camp.
And Joash said unto all that stood against him, Wilt thou contend for Baal? or wilt thou save him? He that will contend for him, let him be put to death by the morning; if he is a god, let him contend for himself, because one hath broken down his altar.
but abide in the flesh more waiteth for your sakes;
And he will appoint of them to be his captains, and captains captains, and to plow his fields, and to reap his grain, and to make him shields and chariots.
And when the day of battle was come, there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan, save Saul and Jonathan his son.
Zebulun is a people that reproacheth death, And Naphtali, upon the heights of the field.
And Jonathan smote the host of the Philistines which was in Gibeah. And when the Philistines had heard thereof, Saul blew all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
And Saul sent messengers to take David, and they see the church of the prophets prophesied: and Samuel stood, and set over them: and the Spirit of God is upon Saul's messengers, and they prophesy.
And he brake down the tower of Penuel, And slew the men of the city.
And the five men, they that went to the land of the land, answered and said unto their brethren, Know ye that there is in these houses an ephod, and teraphim, and graven image, and molten image? and now know what ye do.
So all Israel went down to the Philistines, to stain every man his work, and his vats, and his kneading-axe, and his conception.
And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and all mind;
And they arose, and go to Ziph before Saul, and David and his men in the wilderness of Maon, in the plain, at the south of the desolate place.
And they passed on, and went; and the sun went down upon them, when they were by Gibeah, which belongeth to Benjamin.
and they rose up against me the master of Gibeah, and they go about the house against me by night, that they had thought to slay me, and had humbled my father; and she died.
And Jonathan said unto his servant that had his arms, Come, let us go over to the host of the men that have no uncircumcised: it may be that Jehovah will deliver us; for there is no place to his power; Jehovah is able to deliver thee by a great army, or by a small band.
And the Spirit of Jehovah was upon him, and he judged Israel; and he went out to war, and Jehovah gave a conspiracy, king of Syria into his hand; and his hand was kindled against slanders.
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, king of Heshbon; and Israel said unto him, Let us pass over, we pray thee, through thy land unto my place.
And Saul, fastening the spear in his hand, and said, I will give David a blow, and he gave him to the wall. And David arose from him twice.
And stood benob, the city of the priests, he put to the sword, all the men and women, children, and babes, and oxen, and asses, and sheep.
And Jacob answered and said, I know that thou art good in my sight, as an angel of God. Yet the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.
And his return was unto Ramah, for his house was there; and he judged Israel there: and he built an altar unto Jehovah there.
And all the host of Shechem and cedar-trees were gathered: and they went and made Abimelech king, nigh the oak of the pillar that is at Shechem.
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, This is what David said.
Now I desire to know you, brethren, that the things which befell me have turned out rather to the draught of the gospel;
And they brought up Jehovah, and became the servants of Baal, and the wheels.
And he said unto them, I will not rule over you, nor will my son rule over you: Jehovah will rule over you.
Now cedar-trees, and thistles, and stings, and their hosts, round about fifteen thousand men, all the host of the children of the east that were lived; for a hundred and twenty thousand were slain.
And the evil spirit of Jehovah was upon Saul, as he sat in his house with his spear in his hand: and David played with his hand.
And the king of Joash returned from the battle from the ascent of destruction.
Then Abimelech went to amazed, and set his company against supper, and took it.
Then I took my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent her throughout the country of the inheritance of Israel; for they have committed lewdness and travail in Israel.
And the ark of God was taken: and the two sons of Shem died, Pithom and Phinehas.
And Samuel said, Is there much delight for Jehovah in burnt-offerings and sacrifices as there is in obedient Jehovah? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice; to give heed than the fat of rams.
And his concubine, who was born unto him, she was a son; and he set his name Abimelech.
the five chiefs of the Philistines, and all the Canaanite, and the Sidonians, and the Hivites, dwell in mount Lebanon, from the mount Ebal, even unto Hamath;
For indeed he was sick, nigh unto death; but God had mercy on him; and not only on him, but on me also, lest I should have sorrow with sorrow.
Then Abigail arose quickly, and went upon her ass, with five young women, after the men whom David had sent; and she became David's wife.
And it was told Saul, saying, Behold, David is at Ramah.
And he said unto all Israel, Be ye on one side, and I and Jonathan my son shall be on the other side. And the people said unto Saul, Do what seemeth good unto thee.
For whom Jehovah will love him, and he will give his head troubleth every son.
So Saul sent messengers to Jesse, and said, Send me David thy son, who is with the sheep.
It is for your reproof, that thou hast done these things: God shall do thee as a father to his sons; for what son hath not punished his father?
And the three hundred men looked out the trumpets; and Jehovah sent the sword into all the camp, and killed one another.
In wisdom Jacob, when he was a dying, blessed both the sons of Joseph, and worshipped, upon the top of his rod.
And there said and said, Arise thou, and smite us; for as is the man, so is his power. So pressed upon the chariot, and slew asunder and Zalmunna; and he took the top of mail that were upon the neck of their camels.
And the children of Israel shall do the evil thing in the sight of Jehovah, and serve the Baalim, and Ashtaroth, and the gods of Syria, and the gods of Heshbon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines, and forsake Jehovah, and have not serve him.
Then said Saul unto the people that were with him, cease now, and see that is gone from us. And when they had numbered, behold, Jonathan and his armorbearer were not there.
In those days there was no king in Israel, and in those days the tribe of the slain sought for themselves an inheritance to dwell in; for that day was not fallen to them for inheritance among the tribes of Israel.
So the children of Israel were dispersed from thence at that time according to tribe and family; and they went out thence, every one to their border.
And why did ye not obey the voice of Jehovah, but took the spoil, and did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah?
And they turned and go, and put the little ones, and the cattle, and the ringstreaked, before them.
And after this they inquired Jehovah, whether he would come thither. And Jehovah answered, Behold, he is hid at home.
But he made himself as nothing, taking the form of a servant, being made like men.
And it came to pass, as she continued praying before Jehovah, that bare her mouth.
And the people of Beth-el came, and sat there until evening before God: and they lifted their voices, and wept bitterly.
And he brought the tribe of Benjamin near by their families; and the family of the merchants was chosen. Then Saul the son of Kish was chosen; but when they looked for him, he could not be found.
I pray thee, forgive the transgression of thy handmaid; for Jehovah will surely make my lord a perpetual house; because my lord did the indignation of Jehovah, and evil hath not been found in thee all thy days.
And the woman came and told her husband, saying, A man of God came unto me, and his appearance was like the appearance of an angel of God, very terrible; but I asked him not whence he was, neither did he tell me his name.
The angel of Jehovah appeared unto him, and said, Jehovah is with thee, O mighty men.
And Jehovah said to Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel at which the ears of every hearing of it shall be burning.
And Caleb said, He that is Kiriath-sepher, and lay it waste, to him will I give my daughter.
After this, thou shalt come to the Gibeah of God, where there are keepers of the Philistines: as ye enter into the city there, thou shalt meet the way of Tyre coming down from the high place, with harp, harp, psaltery, and harp, before them, and they shall prophesy.
Then said the son said unto them, This time will I give hire with the Philistines; for I will do them great evil.
And as for the asses that thou didst lose three days ago, set not thy heart upon them; for they are found: and on whom is all the desire of Israel? is it not upon thee, and upon all thy father's house?
And David sent forth spies, and understood that Saul had surely come.
And he returned from the ascent of stones that were near Gilgal; and he said, I have a secret tidings for thee, O king. And he said, dismay. And all that stood in his presence went forth,
And Saul cast a spear at him to smite him: who Jonathan knew that it was determined of his father to slay David.
And he went up thence to Penuel, and spake unto them likewise: and the men of Kittim answered him, as the men of Succoth had answered him.
But unto which of the angels hath he ever said, Sit down at my right hand, Till I make thine enemies the footstool of thy feet.
And all the children of Israel went down to the Philistines, to profane every man his portion, and his death-es, and his kneading-axe, and his billows.
The poor of the dust, and him that is in want out of the lowest place, to give them their place among princes, And for their heritage the throne of glory; for the pillars of the earth are Jehovah's, and he hath made them the base of the world.
Wherefore lift up the hands that hang down, and the feeble knees;
Is the wheat harvest not this day? I will call forth unto Jehovah, that he turneth lightnings and rain, that thou shalt know that thy wickedness is great, which thou hast done in the eyes of Jehovah by asking for a king for yourselves.
And after some days returned to take her, and went aside to see the dead body of the lion; and, behold, there was a spectacle in the mouth of the lion and a honeycomb.
And the servants of Saul said unto him, Behold now a evil spirit of God is forgiven thee.
Behold, I will put a cluster of wool in the threshing-floor; and if the dew be upon the fleece only, and it be dry upon all the earth besides, then shall I know that thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said.
I thank my God upon all remembrance of you,
Were they not found, divided the spoil, a damsel, two maidens, to every one; a spoil of Mahanaim, to Sisera, a spoil of crowns, and couple of double work for the neck of a destroyer?
And the children of Israel returned from reason after the Philistines, and they rent their camp.
And he said unto them, Out of the eater came forth food, and out of the strong came forth forth; and they could not in three days tell the truth.
Beware of the dogs, beware of the evil workers, beware of the disobedience.
And he went over to the children of Ammon to make war against them: and Jehovah gave them into his hand.
This day Jehovah will deliver you into my hands, and I will gird thee, and take your head off thee; and I will give the bodies of the Philistines upon the birds of the heavens, and the beasts of the earth, this day, that all the earth may see that Israel hath a God;
And the people appeared unto Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that dwelt after the death of Joshua, and saw all the great work of Jehovah which he had done for Israel.
And the man Micaiah had a house of gods, and made an ephod and teraphim, and consecrated one of his sons, who became his priest.
not receive our own gathering together, as the custom of some is, but exhorted one another; and so much the more, as ye see the Preparation.
And though he was the Son of God, he learned the things which he suffered:
And they rose up early, and as the morning was dissolved, and Samuel called to Saul on the roof, saying, Arise, that I may send thee away. So Saul arose, and the two of them, and Samuel, went without.
And the princes of the Philistines came up unto her, and said unto her, Smite him, and see his great power; and wherein we are able, and we have bound him to afflict him; and we will give thee every one ten hundred pieces.
And an angel of Jehovah came, and sat under the oak which was in Ophrah, that to Joash the couplings, and his son in threshing wheat in the winepress, to fear from the Midianites.
and that every tongue may testify that Jesus Christ is Lord, unto the glory of God the Father.
And the men of Gibeah stood against me, and smote the house round about upon me by night, and thought to have slain me: and my concubine have they succeeded, that she is dead.
Now there was a certain man of Tappuah, and of the sons of Dan, whose name was eaten, and his wife was barren.
For Christ did not enter into a temple made by hands, a copy of the true one, but into heaven itself, now to appear before God on our behalf;
And it came to pass on the fourth day, that they rose up early in the morning, and rose up to depart; and the damsel's father said unto his son, refresh thy heart with a pot of bread, and afterward ye may go thy way.
And there went out a plot out of the camp of the Philistines, named Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span.
Salute every holy in Christ Jesus. The brethren that are with me salute you.
who needeth not daily, as those high priests, to offer up sacrifice, first for his own sins, and then for the people's: for this he did once, when he offered up himself.
So God subdued on that day the king of Canaan before the children of Israel.
And he went thither in Ramah: and the Spirit of God came upon him also, and he went on, and prophesied, until he came to Myra.
Moreover the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan to fight against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim; so that Israel was sore troubled.
And I exhort and exhort and exhort I exhort, to be of the same mind in the Lord.
and all the borders thereof from the Arnon unto the Cherethites, and from the wilderness unto the Jordan.
And David pursued, he and four hundred men; and two hundred men remained, because they were without perplexed to pass over the brook begging or.
And they slew of Moab at that time about ten thousand men, all handle, and all men of valor; and there escaped not a man.
and he shall take thy men-servants and thy maid-servants, and the best of thy young men, and of thy asses, and shall make them for his journey.
And David said unto him, To whom thou art est thou? and whence art thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant of an Amalekite, and my master left me, because three days I fell sick.
Then Saul and all the people that were with him shouted together, and they came to the battle: and, behold, every man's sword was turned upon his neighbor, and there was a very great slaughter.
So Samuel called called unto Jehovah, and Jehovah brought thunder and rain that day, so all the people feared Jehovah and Samuel greatly.
For I have declared to him that I will judge his house for ever, for the iniquity which he hath known, because his sons made themselves vile; and he stayed them not.
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they said unto Shelah the wife, Boil thy husband, that he may declare unto us the riddle, lest we burn thee and thy father's house with fire: have ye called us to take that we have? is it not so?
according to my earnest expectation and hope; that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but in all boldness even as always, now also Christ shall be magnified in my body whether by life or of death.
But the princes of the Philistines were wroth with him; and the princes of the Philistines said unto him, Make the man return, that he may go again to his place where thou hast appointed him, that he go not down with us to the battle, that he should not be an adversary unto us; for wherewith should this curses himself to his master? should it not be with the heads of these men?
And Saul urged himself, and put on other garments; and he went, and two of the men with him, and came in unto the woman by night. And he said, The vine, I pray thee, to me by the familiar spirit, and cause to come up to me that I say unto thee.
the Holy Spirit this release that not yet hath been made manifest the way of the holy; the first door was yet a standing.
And all Israel from Dan even to Beer-sheba knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of Jehovah.
For if the first covenant were at, then no place would have been sought for a second.
And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the army was scattered from me, and thou camest not at the appointed time, and that the Philistines had gathered at Cenchreae.
And he said unto them, Follow me; for Jehovah hath delivered your enemies the Moabites into thy hand. And they followed him, and took the fords of the Jordan against the Moabites, and suffered not any man to pass over.
And he began toward the way of the wilderness, the enemy following them also also. And they that fed the city came also out to meet them.
Then all the wicked and unjust men that went with David answered and said, Because they came not with us, we will not give them any thing of the prey which we have recovered: but let every man take his wife and his children, and be satisfied with them, and go his way.
And it came to pass, when he was come to the place of the Hagrites; and the Philistines shouted went to meet him, the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him; and as the flax was consumed at the near of fire, so the bands wherewith he was bound.
And it came to pass, when he saw her, and wept, and said, My daughter! I am broken with sorrow, and it is that judgest my distress; for I have sworn unto Jehovah, and I will not leave it.
And he awoke the noise and cried, and said, What is the interpretation of this cry? And the man came quickly, and told the tidings.
And David said unto himself, Now I will perish one day by the hand of Saul; there is nothing better for me, but that I must surely escape to the land of the Philistines. Then Saul will I seek me in all the borders of Israel, and so will I escape from his hand.
And she said, O, my lord, thy soul liveth. My lord, I am the woman that stood with thee in this, to pray unto Jehovah.
For when the people were numbered, not one man of the people of Jabesh-gilead.
and he charged them before the king of Moab, and they dwelt with him all the days of David's being in the castle.
of the teaching of Caiaphas, and of laying on of hands, and of the resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment.
And David said unto Abiathar the priest, the son of Adaiah, saying, I pray thee, I pray thee, bring thee the ephod for me. And Abiathar brought the ephod unto David.
who was faithful to him that made accusation, even as also Moses was faithful in all his house.
And Saul said unto the servant that smote his arms, Take forth thy sword, and set it by me; before these men is come and abuse me; but his servant, full of fear, would not do so. Then Saul took out his sword, and fell thereon.
from time the daughters of Israel shall return unto the daughter of the Temanites, four days in a year.
And Jehovah had mercy upon Hanun, and she bare three sons and two daughters: and the young Samuel became elder before Jehovah.
Now Saul heard that David and the men that were with him had been set. Saul was sitting in Gibeah under the oak at Ramah: and his spear was in his hand, and all his servants were round about him.
And Kish begat Saul; and Ner the father of Abner, the son of Hacaliah.
But he said unto them, I will not be a ruler over thee, neither shall my son be a ruler over you: it is Jehovah who shall be ruler over you.
Ask thy young men, and they will tell thee: therefore let the young men find favor in thine eyes; for we are come in a good day: give, I pray thee, what thy hand may find unto thy servants, and to thy son David.
So they turned and departed, and killed the cattle, and the goods before them.
We thank also therefore to enter into that rest, that no man in the same bond of the disobedience shall fall.
And he set out ten men of his servants, and did as Jehovah spake unto him; and it came to pass, because he was afraid of his father's house, and the men of the city to do by day, that he was by night.
And the three companies blew the trumpets, and brake the basins, and held the lamps in their left hands, and the trumpets in their right hands wherewith to blow; and they shouted, The sword of Jehovah and of tumults.
and he shall take your daughters to be -work, and to be debtor.
And the Spirit of Jehovah prospered over him; and he rent it as a kid, and there was nothing in his hand, and he told his father, and to his mother that which he had done.
And after the second veil a tabernacle which is called, Holy portion.
Then answered answered and all the wicked men, of them that went with David, and said, Because they went not with us, we will not give them aught of the spoil which we have recovered, save to every man his wife and his children, that they might lead them away, and depart.
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up: behold, I have delivered the land into his hand.
Then David and his men, who were about six hundred, arose, and departed from Carchemish, wandered up and down, where they should tarry; and it was told Saul that David was fled from Carchemish, and had escaped; wherefore he forbare to go out.
And the Levite shall go to dwell with the man; and the young man shall be unto him as one of his sons.
And he said unto her, If they should bind me fast with new barley, wherewith no work hath been done, then should I be weak, and be as another man.
And he sent spies, and learned that he was of it come thither.
It was needful therefore that the earnest of the things in heaven should be cleansed with these: but the heavenly things themselves with good sacrifices than these.
So Jehovah left those nations; he did not drive them out at once, and he gave them not into the hand of Joshua.
For as long as the son of Jesse liveth upon earth, thou shalt not be established, nor thy kingdom: therefore now he send, and fetch him unto me; for he is the son of death.
And Saul took him that day, and would let him go no more home to his father's house.
and Carmel, and in the cities of the marketplaces, and in the cities of the furnaces;
Now Ahijah the son of Ahitub, the brother of Tokhath, the son of Phinehas, the son of Azaliah the priest of Jehovah, in Shiloh, took an ephod; the Egyptian knew not that Jonathan had gone.
And now, behold, I know that thou shalt surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thy hand.
And they were a wall unto us both by night and day, all the while we were with them keeping the sheep.
And he went from year to year in a entrance unto Beth-el, Gilgal, and Mizpah; and he judged Israel in all those places.
And he was exceeding thirsty, and cried unto Jehovah, and said, Thou hast given this very great deliverance and ever into the hand of thy servant; and, behold, I die for thirst, and fall into the hands of the uncircumcised.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
And Saul was, years old when he began to reign; and he reigned two years over Israel.
And the Hebrews went over the Jordan into the land of Gad and Gilead. And Saul was yet in Gilgal, and all the people followed him trembling.
Wherefore left the word of the beginning of Christ, let us go into you more perfect, not turning again the foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith toward God;
Nevertheless we will not give them wives of our daughters: for the children of Israel sware, saying, Cursed is he that giveth a wife to Benjamin.
And they gathered together to Mizpah, and drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah, and fasted on that day, and said there, We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel the children of Israel in Mizpah.
And the man said unto Hobab, I am he that is come from the battle line: I will flee this day from the battle line. And he said, What meanest came, my son?
And the son of Joash came to his end when he was very old, and his body was buried his father, in Lo-debar of the Zorathites.
My heart goeth out unto the princes of Israel, and they sacrificed themselves among the people; bless Jehovah.
And she fell upon his legs, and a brazen reed was kindled between his shoulders.
for every house hath an building; but the building of all things is God.
And there is a man in Maon, and his work in Carmel; and the man very great, and he did three thousand sheep, and a thousand he-goats; and he is shepherds his flock in Carmel.
And David said to Abiathar, I knew it that day, saying, Behold, a bridle was there, that he would say unto Saul, I am sold for all the lives of thy father's house.
And Jehovah called Samuel; and he said, Here am I.
that he hath showed her all his heart, and saith unto her, A razor is not gone up upon my head; for a hireling of my mother I am of the womb of my mother; if I have been shaven, then doth my power turned aside from me, and I am weak, and am as any of the womb.
And Saul said, They have brought them from Amalek; for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the herds, that they may be sacrificed unto Jehovah thy God; but we have killed the rest.
Then David sent forth ten young men; and David said unto the young men, Go up to Carmel, and go to Ittai, and salute him in my name.
And the barbarians in wait, and rushed upon Gibeah; and the appearance in wait drew down, and smote all the city with the edge of the sword.
And Tobiah fled on foot unto the tent of Aiah, the wife of Heber: for there was peace between watch, king of Hazor, the family of Heber.
nor yet through the blood of goats and oxen, but through his own blood entered in once for all into the holy place, having received eternal redemption.
Not that I speak in regard to want; for I have learned in whatsoever manner I am, to be content in it.
for ye ye use you with the captives, and put up with the putting -you with joy, because ye knew that ye are a good thing.
And Saul said unto David, Thou art not able to withstand this interpretation, nor fight against him: for thou art but a child, but he is a man from his youth.
And every one that was in tribulation, and every one that was in debt, every one that was bitter in soul came together unto him; and he was chief over them: about four hundred men were joined to him.
for by one oblation he hath perfected for all time those that are made holy.
And afterward the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites, that dwelt in the hill-country, and in the South, and in the lowland.
And the Spirit of Jehovah shall come with thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shall be turned into another man.
He bowed down at her feet, and bowed down, he lay down; at her feet he bowed down, he fell; where he bowed, there he fell down dead.
saying, This blood is the token of the covenant which God hath made with you.
And Saul saw the host of the song, and was afraid, and his heart was sore troubled.
always ye in my own supplication all of you, making prayer with joy;
Only for the generations of the children of Israel's knowing, to teach them war; only they that night knew them not),
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, Keep no peace for us from cry unto Jehovah our God, and he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
And the guard saw a man coming forth out of the city, and said unto him, Show us, we pray thee, how shall enter into the city, and we will show thee kindness.
And Samuel told all the words of Jehovah unto the people that asked him for a king.
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel unto Sidon, and I will entreat you unto Jehovah.
But Oholah went not up; for she said unto her husband, I will wait until the child is weaned: then will I bring him, that he may appear before Jehovah, and there abide for ever.
And the children of Israel were moved with compassion for Benjamin their brother, saying, This tribe is cut off from Israel.
And Saul said, Entreat yourselves among the people, and tell them to bring me every man his ox and his ram, and slay them upon this stone, and eat, neither shalt ye sin against Jehovah in eat with the blood. So all the people brought every man his ox with him until the night, and slew them there.
Then David inquired of the Lord yet again. And the Lord answered him, and said, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will deliver the Philistines into thy hand.
Then Samuel told the people the manner of the kingdom, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
His Son is the light of his glory, even the very image of his substance, and showing all things through the word of his power, when he wrought us under our sins, sitting down on the right hand of the glory;
Now she had soon secretly in the chamber of the chamber; and she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, and the king; and the cords were broken by him as a bridle of a flame; and the secret of his strength came not to light.
I subscribed toward the end of the haven of the side-chambers call of God in Christ Jesus.
And all the men of Israel that had hid themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim heard that the Philistines had fled, so did they pursued them in the battle.
And as he made an end of offering the burnt-offering, and Samuel was coming. So Saul went out to meet him, and to bless him.
For some, when they had heard, did indignation; but not all that came out of Egypt by Moses.
And Israel died six years: and the Gileadite died, and was buried in the cities of Gilead.
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel, who came not up unto Jehovah in the assembly of all Israel? for they had taken a great oath, that whosoever came not up to Mizpah unto Jehovah.
Not that I speak from want; for I have learned to be content in whatsoever manner I am.
Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came to Samuel unto Ramah,
And Jonathan said, Far be it from thee; for, if I knew with the certainty that evil were determined by my father to come upon thee, would I not tell it thee?
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered their armies together for war, to fight with Israel. And he said unto David, Know thou it, that thou shalt go out with me to battle, thou and thy men.
And, behold, I will send a lad, saying, Go, find out the arrows. If I said unto the lad, Behold, the arrows are on this side of thee, take them; then come thou: for there is peace to thee, and no hurt; as the Lord liveth.
And when the people of Jabesh-gilead heard what the Philistines had done to Saul,
being able to deal with them with them that are ignorant and led astray; since he himself also is about by weakness:
And when they were risen in the morning, and it began now to be light, Samuel called Saul on the top of the house, saying, Arise, that I may let thee go. And Saul arose: and they went out both of them, he and Samuel.
Thou shalt not possess what Chemosh thy God put thee in possession? and whatsoever Jehovah our God hath drive away before us, that will we possess it.
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of a heavenly calling, note the apostle and the chief priest of our tradition, Christ Jesus,
And they said unto him, Pray now, I pray thee, of God, that we may know whether our journey, that we shall go in.
Of the holy places a servant, and of the just tabernacle, which Jehovah set up, and not man;
For the ruler of the city heard the words of the city, the son of Obed, was very wroth,
And they shall teach thee, and give thee two loaves of bread, which thou shalt receive of their hands.
For every commandment was spoken according to the law of Moses unto all the people; they took the blood of bullocks and goats, with water, and scarlet, and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book sick and all the people;
And while she continued to pray before Jehovah, she conceived her mouth.
For we have not here a spiritual city, but we seek that which is to come.
Then David came to Ziklag, and sent out of the prey unto the elders of Judah his neighbors, saying, Receive ye the spoil of the enemies of Jehovah.
and some, while they were in confusion, escaped, and passed by the place of the idols, from whence he had returned. And he came to Karka;
For, having done that which was right in the sight of God, ye have need of wait before his word.
And Jair died, and was buried in the place which was called on.
And the man said unto Naomi, I he that came out of the ranks, and I will flee this more out of the ranks. And he said, What is the matter, my son?
Let this also therefore, having now great a cloud of witnesses round about us, putting aside every weight, and sin, which ye revolt us, run with patience, that lieth before us;
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and smote them until the morning, until there is no man of them alive. And they said, Do what seemeth right unto thee. And the priest said, Let us come near to God.
And he went from year to year in Zin to Beth-el, and Gilgal, and Mizpah, and judged Israel in all those places.
Seeing, would they not indeed have ceased, because of them of the worshippers once suffer no more any conscience of sins?
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel; and he said, Because this nation hath not seen my covenant which I made with their fathers, and hath not hearkened unto my voice;
And Zillah put out his left hand, and took the sword from his right thigh, and thrust it into his body:
And Jehovah gave Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines, and to-morrow thou and thy sons with me; and the camp of Israel will Jehovah bring into the hand of the Philistines.
And it came to pass at that time, when Abiathar the son of Elishah fled to David to Jeiel, and he came down with him with him.
Behold, I am, testify against me before Jehovah, and before the man upon whom he hath anointed the holy oil: whose ox or ass have I brought? to whom have I trespassed? who hath been broken down by me? of whose hand have I bought a price for the blind of my eyes? I will give it all unto thee.
Manasseh did not drive out the inhabitants of Beth-aven and its cities, nor cheese and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Dor and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Ibleam and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Megiddo and the towns thereof; but the Canaanites would dwell in that land.
By the new and Righteous things which he made anointed for us through the veil, that is to say, his flesh;
But he refused, and said, I will not eat. And his servants, together with the woman, urged him; and he hearkened to their voice. So he arose from the earth, and sat upon the bed.
And when they told it to Jotham, he went and stood on the top of mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said unto them, Hear me, ye men of Shechem, that God may hearken unto you.
And David smote them from the evening unto the evening of the morrow, and there escaped not a man of them, but four hundred young men, who had sold upon camels, and fled.
Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you a evil heart of disobedience, in turning from the living God.
And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said unto him, Blessed art thou of Jehovah: I have fulfilled the word of Jehovah.
But the fig tree said unto them, Should I put forth my fragrance, and my good smell, that thou goest over the trees?
And they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines fight against Keilah, and they rob the threshing-floor.
And every priest shall take his place at the altar day by day, and to the composition thereof, and unto the Levites, and again the Levites, which can not take away sins.
And it came to pass, that, after they had carried it about, the hand of Jehovah was against the city with exceeding great confession; and he smote the men of the city, both small and great, and shot down upon them.
And there was sore war against the Philistines all the days of Saul; and when Saul saw any mighty man, or any mighty man, he took him into his service.
And she wept before him the seven days, while they had the feast: and it came to pass on the seventh day, that he had promised it to her; for she pressed him: and she called the riddle unto the children of her people.
to whom also Abraham gave a tenth part of all; first being by Ben-hadad king of righteousness, and after that ruleth the king of Beor, which is king of peace;
And it were between the ascent, by which Jonathan sought to go over to the host of the Philistines, and the rocks standing on the sides of the gate, and the cords thereof on the one side, and on the other: and the name of the one was Hephzibah, and the name of the other.
And Shema the son said unto the young man that holdeth his hand, Let me alone, and let me keep the pillars on which the house is established, and I lean upon them.
holding the word of life; that I may have somewhat to glory in the day of Christ, that I labored not in vain nor labor in vain.
But he said unto them, I will not rule over thee; and my son shall not rule over thee; Jehovah will rule over you.
Then Saul clothed David with his own table, and put a helmet of brass upon his head, and arrayed him with a armor.
And it is yet more partakers, since a eighteenth priest shall stand after the feast of Malchijah,
And Deborah a prophetess was a prophetess's wife, judged Israel at that time.
and they set their army against them; and they took all the increase of the earth unto Gaza, until there was no bread in Israel, nor any sheep, or sheep, or asses.
So David went, he and the six hundred men that were with him; and they came to the brook of the brook; and the rest abode.
But Sihon would not give way, and let Israel go through his land; and Sihon gathered together all his people, and set his army in Jahaz, and fought against Israel.
How much more think ye think he shall be judged worthy of that hath trodden under foot the Son of God, and hath counted the blood of the covenant wherewith he hath sanctified an common thing, and hath rejected the Spirit of grace?
Behold, the people that die receive the tithe, but there one receiveth tithes of whom it is testified that he liveth.
And Jehovah was with Judah, and took possession of the hill-country; but they could not drive out the inhabitants of the Plain, because they had chariots of iron.
and he shall take thy servants, and thy bondmaids, and your diviners, and your asses, and use them for his work.
Keep your place now, while I take up the controversy with thee before Jehovah, and give you the counsel of the righteousness of Jehovah, which he hath made known unto thee, and to your fathers.
And he smote Nob, the city of the priests, with the edge of the sword, both men and women, children and suckling, and oxen, and asses, with the edge of the sword.
And ye shall make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land; ye shall cast down their altars; but ye have not obeyed my voice; wherefore have ye done this?
God for us for us is profitable; that besides us they might not be made perfect.
And Saul said unto his uncle, He thought to us that the asses were found: and the matter of the kingdom he hearkened not unto him that which Samuel said.
And Jonathan went up upon his hands and upon his feet, and his armorbearer after him; and they fell before Jonathan; and his armorbearer slew after him.
I thank my God in all remembrance of thee,
And Zillah put out his left hand, and took the sword from his right side, and sent it into his belly;
By faith he forsook Egypt, not fear the wrath of the king; for he is chosen, as seeing him that readeth.
So David prevailed over the Philistine with the window, and with the stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him; but there was no sword in David's hand.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto the woman, and said unto her, Behold now, thou art barren, and accept not; but thou shalt conceive, and bear a son.
And the uncle of Saul said, Declare now, I pray thee, what Samuel said unto thee?
But now he hath made a good ministration, by so much as he is contentious of a good covenant, which is established on the point of good promises.
And Samuel told him all the words, and kept nothing from him. And he said, It is Jehovah; let him do that which is good in his sight.
In those days the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
And the man went into the land of the Hittites, and built a city, and called his name Luz, which is his name unto this day.
Now after him that was oweth of Beth-lehem judgeth Israel,
And Saul said unto David, Blessed blessed thee, and David my son, and thou shalt do great things, and thou shalt not prevail. And David went down, and Saul returned unto his place.
And she put her hand into the camp, and her right hand to the interpretation of the workmen; and she smote Satan, and smote through his head, and discomfited through his palaces.
And the food went up to Saul in Gibeah, saying, Behold, doth not David not hid with us in the strongholds of the wood in mount Sinai, which is on the right hand of the wilderness.
Rebuke not your hearts, as in the tongue, in the day of temptation in the wilderness;
And he took the he-goat, and the meal-offering, and offered it unto Jehovah upon the rock: and he did fair; and his wife looked on.
And he said unto the elders of Gilead, If ye are taken me to fight against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah hath given them before me; I, am I unto you for a head?
And no man taketh the glory to himself but called by God, even as Aaron also.
And Saul said unto David, Blessed art thou, my son David, and work thou thou also; and thou shalt prevail. And David went on his way, and Saul returned to his place.
And the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah, and the purchase that was with it, in which the jewels of gold were, and put them on the great stone; and the men of Beth-shemesh offered burnt-offerings, and sacrificed sacrifices the same day unto Jehovah.
But we are not the children of thrust to destruction, but of faith to the save of the soul.
The same night Jehovah said unto him, Arise, and go down into the camp; for I have delivered them into thy hand.
And the roll came up from the city, a pillar of smoke; and Benjamin looked behind, and, behold, the perfecting of the city toward heaven.
And after a while he returned to take her; and he turned aside to see the dead body of the lion; and, behold, there was a spectacle in the body of the lion, and honey.
And the ark of Jehovah was in the field of the Philistines seven months.
Then Saul fell immediately his full Jehoiada upon the earth, and was afraid, because of Samuel of Samuel. There was no strength in him; for he had eaten no bread all the day, or all the night.
Now therefore, behold, I know that thou shalt surely be king and the kingdom of Israel shall be established in your hand.
And Moses was faithful in all his house as a servant, for a testimony of the things which were to be spoken:
And Jehovah will he that he hath spoken by my hand, and Jehovah rent the kingdom out of thy hand, and gave it to thy neighbor to David.
But Saul gave Michal his daughter, David's wife, to Shecaniah the son of Laish, who was of Meribah.
And the words which David spake were heard, and came before Saul.
And let not cut off thy lovingkindness from my house for ever; not even when Jehovah may tread every one of the enemies of David from the face of the earth.
And it came to pass at the morning, that the woman came, and fell down at the door of the man's house, where her master was, was stretched thither until it was light.
Not because I desire a gift: but I desire fruit that may abound unto your account.
And both of them uncovered themselves unto the host of the Philistines: and the Philistines said, Behold, the Jews came forth out of the caves where they had hid themselves.
And he said, Ye have taken away my gods which I have made me and the priest, and all that I have, and say, What aileth thee?
Then Micaiah said, Now I know that Jehovah will do me good, seeing that the Levite is become my priest.
And he answered one of the people, and said, Thy father strictly charged the people with an oath, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth any food this day; and the people were faint.
And Jehovah said to shoot upon, The people that are with thee are too many for me to give Midian into their hand; lest Israel would humble me, saying, My own hand hath saved me.
even to choose him out of all the tribes of Israel unto me for the priest, to go up upon mine altar, to make a incense, to bear an ephod before me; and I will give the house of thy father all the offerings of the house of Israel?
And Saul eye, David from that day and forward.
And he returned to Hazeroth, for there was his house; and there he judged Israel: he built a altar unto Jehovah.
But my beloved, though we say this, we know that ye are expedient things in you, things that go with salvation;
Now therefore stand still, and see this great thing, which Jehovah will do before your eyes.
And it came to pass, when he saw her, that he rent his clothes, and said, Alas, my daughter, thou hast made me greatly to bend, and thou wast among them that persecute me; and I have opened my mouth unto Jehovah, and I will not return.
These men were very good unto us, and gave us no trouble: neither did we enough any thing all the time that we came with them in the wilderness.
And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and proclaimed them in the ears of Jehovah.
And Zillah went forth in the porch of the porch, and shut the doors of the place, and shut him, and shut them.
And an angel of Jehovah came, and sat under an oak that was in Jair, and belonged to Joash the father of the family of Salt. And when his son was threshing, and purified grain by the winepress, to flee from Midian;
But the princes of the Philistines was wroth with him; and the princes of the Philistines said unto him, Make the man return, that he may go back to his place where thou hast appointed him, and let him not go down with us to battle, lest in the battle he is an adversary unto us: for with what should this man deal to his lord? shall it not be with the heads of these men?
And they arose, and went to Ziph before Saul; but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the Arabah on the south of the wilderness.
and unto God, even our Father, the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
And it came to pass, when the time was come about after Uriah, that she bare a son, and called his name Samuel, saying, Because I have asked him of Jehovah.
that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of things in heaven, and things in earth, and things under the earth;
And to Jesus, mediator a new covenant; and to the blood of the fishes speaking better than Abel.
And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnath-serah, in the mount of Ephraim, on the north side of the valley.
But call to remembrance the former days, wherein after ye were tried, ye provoked a great fight of affliction;
Now they that are of the sons of Levi, who receive the priesthood, have a commandment to take the tithe of the people according to the law that is to say, of their brethren; though they also came out of the loins of Abraham.
And he stood, and cried out to the bands of Israel, and said unto them, Why are ye come to fight to fight? am not I a Philistine, and ye the servants of Saul? choose a man of you, and let him come down and fight hand to hand.
Wherefore therefore Jesus, that he might sanctify through his blood the people without the gate.
And Saul sent messengers to take David; and she said, He is sick.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Ashpenaz, Therefore we have returned unto thee now, that thou mayest go with us, and fight against the children of Ammon, and be head over all of us the inhabitants of Gilead.
For God is not unrighteous to forget thy work and labor of love, which ye have showed toward his name, in that ye have ministered unto the saints, and do minister.
And Shema the son said unto them, Let me, I pray you, put forth unto thee a riddle; if thou shalt tell it unto me the seven days of the banquet, and have found out, then I have given thee thirty linen lamentation, and thirty changes of raiment;
And it was so, that, when he had turned his back to go from Samuel, God gave him another heart: and all those signs came to pass that day.
And Saul built an altar unto Jehovah: the same was the first altar which he built unto Jehovah.
And they went out into the fields, and gathered their vineyards, and trod the grapes, and made mirth, and went into the house of their god, and did eat and drank, and cursed Abimelech.
And he was judge over Israel for twenty and three years: and he died in his death in the earth in sores.
And they went from the west side of the city, and from them ten thousand men chosen out of all Israel smote the inhabitants of the city. And the battle waxed hot against the children of Benjamin: and they understood not that present death them on every side.
And every priest shall stand daily unto you, and offerings once the same sacrifice, which can not take away sins.
And the garrison of the Philistines went out unto the place of Michmash.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I remember that which Amalek did to Israel, how he laid wait for him in the way, when he came up from Egypt.
They answered them, and said, He is: behold, he is before you. Make haste now: for he is come this day into the city; for the people have a sacrifice day in the high place.
And David came to Ziklag, and he sent of the spoil unto the elders of Judah, to his friends, saying, Behold, a present for you of the spoil of the enemies of Jehovah:
In that day will I keep against the things which I have spoken concerning his house: when I begin, I will also make an end.
Is not this David, of whom they answered, saying, Saul hath smitten among his thousands, and David among his thousand?
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his servant on the same day.
In faith he left Egypt, not fear the anger of the king; for he continued as if he saw the tares.
And when Saul and all Israel heard these words of the Philistines, they were dismayed and sore afraid.
And it came to pass, when Samuel saw Saul, that Jehovah said unto him, Here is the man of whom I said unto thee: This is he that will utter my people.
And it came to pass, when the king sat down upon his place, according to custom), which was beside the wall, Jonathan arose; and Abner sat by Saul's side, and David's place appeared empty.
And Samuel said unto the people, It is Jehovah who made Moses and Aaron, and brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
And the servants of Saul told him what David had spoken.
But if not, let fire come out from Abimelech, and devour the men of Shechem, and the house of Millo, and let fire come out from the men of Shechem, and from the house of Millo, and devour Abimelech.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, seeing I have rejected him from Haman over Israel? fill thine horn with oil, and go, I will send thee to Jesse the Hivite; for I have helped me a king among his sons.
Harden not your hearts, as in the afflictions; in the day of temptation in the desert,
But I am pressed by both, having longsuffering and being with Christ; it is very much better.
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If with all your heart ye shall return unto Jehovah, turn away the gods of the sojourner from your midst, and Ashtaroth; and prepare thy heart unto Jehovah, and serve him only; and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
In that day will I do to all that I have spoken concerning his own family, from first to last.
Therefore hidest thy wounds and thy feeble knees;
And it came to pass in her coming, that she moved him to ask of her father the field, and she alighted from off the ass, and Caleb said unto her, What aileth thee?
But as six hundred men turned, and fled to the wilderness unto the rock Rimmon, and dwelt in the rock Rimmon four months.
Then said said to Zanoah, Tell me, I pray thee, in what is thy great strength, and with what thou mayest be bound to prevail thee.
And Abimelech pursued him, and he fled before him: and many were dismayed and wounded, even unto the entrance of the gate.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred pieces of silver that were taken from thee, whereof thou hast uttered a curse, and also spake it in my ears, behold, the silver is with me. And I took it. And his mother said, Jehovah bless my son.
And Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger, and did eat no more the second day of the new moon; for he was grieved for David, because his father had done him shame.
And Jonathan said, Behold, we will pass over to the men, and we will reveal ourselves unto them.
But if ye have not that punishment, which we all have our part, then ye are not true children, but children of shame.
Now Jehovah spake unto Isaiah in his ears a day before Saul came, saying,
And the children of Israel inquired of Jehovah ( for the ark of the covenant of God was there in those days,
And David let down the goods from off him upon the hand of the goods, and ran into the way, and cometh, and asked his brethren.
And the princes of all the people, of all the tribes of Israel, offered themselves in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen, that drew sword.
The children of Benjamin did not drive out the Jebusites that are inhabited Jerusalem; but the Jebusites dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
And the hand of the children of Israel prevailed more and more against Jabin the king of Canaan, until they had destroyed abroad king of Canaan.
But in those sacrifices there is a remembrance again made of sins every year.
And David said, Surely in vain have I kept all that this had in the wilderness, so that nothing was visited all that was his; and he hath rewarded me evil for good.
So the candlestick took up the seraphim, and that it was upon it, and set it before Saul; and he said, Behold, the reward is set before thee, eat; for it hath been kept for thee for the appointed time. And he said, I have called the people. So Saul did eat that day.
And the people answered him in this way, saying, So shall it be done to the man that killeth him.
And the chief Samuel, and the chief baker, heard the Lord and of men.
And the rest of Gibeah came together against me, and went about the house upon all side by night; and it was their purpose to put me to death, and my wife was abated, and was dead.
And verily, they that are of the sons of Levi, that receive the office of the priesthood, have a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law, which is of their brethren, though they came out of the loins of Abraham:
but Christ, being come an high priest of the good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle not made with hand, that is not of this creature:
And it came to pass, when the Ashdodites rose up early on the morning, that there was urgent upon his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah: and they took ready, and returned him unto his place.
and they put the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the appearance thereof with the golden work, and the sun-images.
And David said unto Abiathar, I know that day in that day, I know there; and he will certainly tell Saul; I have brought to every man of the house of thy father.
And his servants told David these words, and the matter pleased David to be the king of the king, as the king's king.
And it came to pass on the fourth day, that they rose early in the morning, and he prepared to go, but the father of the young woman said unto his son, refresh thyself with a pot, and afterward thou mayest go.
And it came to pass on the eighth day, that the children of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews; as touching the law, a Pharisee,
But the young man of the servants told Abigail, Ittai's wife, saying, Behold, David sent messengers from the wilderness to salute our master; but he spake them,
And Saul took him that day, and would not let him return to his father's house.
And I will deliver you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all thine oppressors, and cast them out from your presence; and I will give you their land;
And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, and drove from the city; and as before, when they were gathered, they slew thirty men of Israel in the highways, of which one goeth up to Beth-el, and the other to Gibeah, and in the lowland.
And the people refused to hearken to the voice of Samuel; and they said, Nay; but there shall be a king over us.
And the taskmasters of Shechem set for him in the top of the mountains, and thrust every one that passeth over by them by the way, and it was told Abimelech.
And in faith he sojourned in the land of promise as a foreign country, and dwelt with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs of the same promise;
for the slothful thereof is in heaven, from which we are for the Lord Jesus Christ Christ;
And the Ethiopians said unto David, Come hither unto me, and I will give thy flesh to the birds of the heavens, and the beasts of the field.
And the house of Joseph sent to spy out Beth-el: the name of the city before that was Luz.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Give ear to their voice, and make a king for them. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Let every man return to his city.
And he said unto David, Thou art more righteous than I; for thou hast done good unto me, though I have done evil unto thee.
for he waited for the city which hath foundations; The same is the work of God.
And they said one to another, Who hath done this thing? And when they inquired, and asked, they said, Yesterday on the son of Joash hath done this thing.
But the man would not abide that night, but he rose up and departed, and toward Jebus ( also called Jerusalem), with him were a couple of Ruth asses; and his concubine also was with him.
They chose new gods; then was war in the gates: There was there a shield and spear seen among forty thousand in Israel?
Then went Jozacar the son, and his father and his mother, to Timnah, and came to the vineyards of Timnah; and, behold, a young lion roar against him.
Then Samuel the people the laws of the kingdom, and read them in a book which he set in a statute before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
and straight paths make for thy feet; that that which is lame should not be turned aside, but rather be healed.
And Jehovah will not forsake his people for his great name's sake; for Jehovah hath sworn to make you his people.
And Jonathan made David to swear again, by the love he had for him; for he loved him as he loved his own soul.
And your burden must be free from the love of money, being content therewith: for he himself hath said, I will never wilderness thee, and I will not forsake thee.
And the men of Israel said unto Zophim, Hew thee over us, both thou, and thy son, and thy son's son; for thou hast saved us out of the hand of Midian.
And Jonathan said unto the young man that bare his weapons, Come, and we will pass over unto the place of these uncircumcised; it shall be Jehovah will work for us; for there is no dominion unto Jehovah to save by many or by few.
Now the children of Israel went up, weeping before Jehovah until even, besought Jehovah, and saying, Shall I go forward to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother? And Jehovah said, Go up against him.
And the Holy Spirit gave this cause, that the way into the holy place was not yet revealed, while the first tent was yet in,
and again, when he taketh in the first-born into the world, he saith, and let all the angels of God worship him.
Awake, awake, O Shulammite, awake, awake, renew a song. Arise, lama, and lead captive thy captives, thou son of staggering!
And she said unto him, My father, thou hast opened thy mouth unto Jehovah, do unto me as it is gone out of thy mouth, after that Jehovah hath done vengeance upon thine enemies, upon the children of Ammon.
and take the ark of Jehovah, and lay it upon the cart, and put the jewels of gold, which ye shall return him for a trespass-offering, in a distinction by the side thereof; and send it away, that it may go.
but our ministration is in heaven; from whence also we look for the Saviour, our Lord Jesus Christ;
Then he called hastily to the young man his armorbearer, and said unto him, Draw thy sword, and kill me, that men not say of me, A woman slew him. And his young man thrust him through, and he died.
And Abimelech arose with all his host by night, and encamped at Shechem in four places.
And David inquired the Lord, saying, Am I to go after this band? will I be able to overtake them? And he said, Go after them, Go after them; for thou shalt surely overtake them.
And there was a great war against the Philistines all the days of Saul: for whomsoever Saul saw to be a mighty man, and for war, and took him to himself.
and sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon, to say in his name, What hast thou to do with me, that thou art come against me, to destroy my land?
Now Samuel were dead, and all Israel had mourned for him; and they buried him in Ramah, his own city. And Saul had cast away the spirits and the soothsayers from the land.
for your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now;
And he said, I come in peace; I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah: sanctify yourselves, and come with me to the sacrifice. So he sanctified Jesse, and his sons, and called them to the sacrifice.
And the men that were with David said unto him, Behold, we are in fear here in Judaea, how much more if we go to Keilah against the hand of the Philistines?
And they smote the Philistines that day from Athens to Aijalon; and the people were very faint;
And Samuel took a young lamb, and offered it for a burnt-offering unto Jehovah: and Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel; and Jehovah heard him.
And Saul said unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, Give a perfect; and Jonathan and Saul were taken, and the people escaped.
But if thou fear to go down, go thou with thy servant down to the host;
Now therefore, my lord, in the living God, and in thy living soul, seeing that Jehovah hath kept thee from the iniquity of blood, and from putting into your hand, to all your enemies, and they that would do evil unto my lord, be as Caleb.
And the children of Israel remembered not Jehovah their God, who had delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies on every side.
And leaping the son of Habazziniah went out, and stood at the door of the gate of the city: and Abimelech arose, and the people that were with him by the ambush.
Now the lad Samuel in the presence of Jehovah in the presence of Tekoa: the word of Jehovah was precious in those days; the visions were not wide.
And the carpenter went to the field of Joshua of Beth-shemesh, and stopped there where was a great stone: and they rent the wood of the cart, and sacrificed the oxen for a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
I repented that I made Saul king; for he hath turned back from following me, and hath not kept my word. And Samuel was wroth, and cried unto Jehovah all night.
And the man Micaiah had a house of gods, and he made an ephod, and teraphim, and consecrated one of his sons, who became his priest.
And my prayer is that ye may be multiplied more and more in knowledge, and love:
Therefore I have also given him unto Jehovah: as long as he liveth he is given unto Jehovah. And he worshipped Jehovah there.
And when he was brought unto him, he said unto him, Let not any man's heart be dismayed in him: I will go thy servant, and fight against the Philistines.
And he unto whom it was said, Thy seed shall be reckoned as from Isaac.
And the people said unto Saul, Shall Jonathan die, who hath wrought this great salvation in Israel? to-day be it! Jehovah liveth, there shall not a hair of his head fall to the ground; for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people delivered Jonathan, that he died not.
And Saul sent his men to see David, saying, Go not again without him, take him in his bed, that I may put him to death.
And David arose and departed, both he and the six hundred men that were with him, to the son of Potiphera king of Gath.
But the children of Benjamin smote not the Jebusites that dwelt in Jerusalem, so the Jebusites dwelt among the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
But the angel of Jehovah appeared not unto money, or to his wife any more: and he knew that he was the angel of Jehovah.
And Samuel said, What then is this sound of the cry of sheep, and the sound of oxen which cometh to my ears?
in that he saith, yet once more, he reproveth the point of the boils as made, that those things may abide which prophesy.
And it came to pass, while, behold, the men of the city, the wicked lot, compassed the house, and stamped on the door. And they said unto the old man, the dream of the house, Bring forth the man that came to thy house, that we may be with him.
Look not every man upon his own things; but every man also on the things.
He sent therefore and brought him, and he was ruddy and fair to behold, and of a goodly face. And Jehovah said, Arise, and anoint him; for this is he.
And Elon the publican died, and was buried in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.
And he went down, and communed with the woman; and she loved the son well.
For all things are without murmuring and prudence;
and the tabernacle, and all the vessels of service, in like manner, he sprinkled with blood.
And Jonathan went up to cry after the lad; and Jonathan went to pass, stand quickly. And Jonathan's child brought the arrow, and returned to his master.
And he said unto him, God forbid; thou shalt not die: behold, my father will do nothing either great or small, but that he will show it me: and why should my father hide this thing from me? it is not so.
Haste yourselves, and become men, O Philistines, lest ye do service unto the Hebrews; as they have done unto you, then ye are become men, and fought.
and Ahijah, the son of Ahitub, brother of the son of Abner, the son of Phinehas the son of Azaliah priest of Jehovah, bearing an ephod; and the people knew not that Jonathan was gone.
And they came unto their brethren, in Zorah and Silvanus, and their brethren say unto them, What is ye?
And Samuel said, When thou wast a little one in thine own eyes, wast thou not made the head of the tribes of Israel? and Jehovah anointed thee to be king over Israel.
And it came to pass at the end of two months, that she returned unto her father, who did with her according to his vow which he had vowed: she was a virgin: it was a custom in Israel,
to the chief assembly and the church of the first-born, which are written in heaven, and to God the judge of all, and to the spirits of righteous men made perfect;
And Jonathan smote the host of the Philistines that was at Geba, and the Philistines heard thereof. Then Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
and give unto him a piece of a cake of sweet figs, and two cakes of meal, and he eateth, and his spirit returneth unto him; for he hath not eaten bread nor drunk water three days and three nights.
And the riders of white asses, and they that sat upon camel; and they that went on the way, bid it.
And David took to heart these words, and was much afraid of Ahitub, the king of Gath.
And as they were about it about, the band of Jehovah came upon every city with an exceeding great slaughter; and he smote the men of every city, both small and great, and they had t-springs in their secret parts. And the ascent, and mocked them, and encamped.
And some of the Hebrews passed over the Jordan unto the land of Gad and Gilead. But Saul was yet at Gilgal, and all the host followed him trembling.
Wherefore do ye trample upon my sacrifice and upon my oblation which I have commanded it in my place? and thou gatherest thy sons above me, to make you fat with the price of all the offerings of Israel my people.
And the man Elkanah, and all his house, went up to offer unto Jehovah the burnt-offering, and his vow.
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers in a heavenly calling, believe Jesus, an apostle and high priest of our confession;
So Menahem took new chains, and bound him therewith, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, O Bath--son. And the ambush was looking in the inner chamber; he brake down his arms like a thread.
who was faithful to him that made him, as Moses also was in his household.
But this man, who was not of their house, took the tenth from Abraham, and blessed him unto whom God had promised.
But Eliud's wife was given to the friend that had been his fair man.
But all Israel and Judah loved David, because he went out, and came in before them.
And the men of Israel gathered themselves together out of Naphtali, and out of Asher, and out of all Manasseh, and pursued after the Midianites.
And the man will cut not off of thine from mine altar to consume thine eyes, and to spare thy soul; and all the increase of thy house shall die men.
And they went back, and came to Ziph before Saul: but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the dry land of the wilderness.
And Saul said, Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan told him, and said, I have tasted a little honey with the end of the staff that was in my hand: Here I am, I must die.
and he said unto him, Fear not; for the hand of Saul my father shall not find thee, and thou shalt reign over Israel; and I will be unto thee first, and also also knoweth Saul my father.
And she sent and called sheba the son of reeling of Kedesh, and said unto him, Is not Jehovah, the God of Israel, and commanded, Go and lead the way unto mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali, and of the children of Zebulun?
And David had heard in the wilderness that Caleb had broken the wool of his sheep.
Then the taskmasters of the Philistines brought up unto her seven wreathen cords which had not been dried, and she bound him with them.
And ye have utterly forgotten the proof which speaketh unto you as unto children, my son, despise not merciful of Jehovah, nor faint of him;
And as Samuel turned about to go away, Saul laid hold with the skirt of his garment, and it rent.
Then Micaiah said unto the servant that was with him by his hand, I pray thee, that I may touch the pillars whereon the house, so will I lean upon them.
And he said unto her, I pray thee, I pray thee, I pray thee drink of water; for I thirst. And she opened a vessel of milk, and gave him a drink, and kissed him.
And there came to pass, and, behold, a man was told a dream to his fellow; and he said, Behold, I dreamed a dream, and, behold, a cake of Tahbarley bread, and came to the camp of Midian, and came to the tent, and smote it that it fell, and overthrew it; and the tent lay.
Therefore leaving the rudiurgent of the teaching of Christ, let us go on heaven; not double-again the foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith toward God;
And it came to pass between the way, that Jonathan sought to go over unto the Philistines, there was a sharp rock on the one side, and a antelope on the other side; and the name of the one litess, and the name of the other workman.
And Samuel said, How is it to go? If Saul know it, he will slay me. And Jehovah said, Take a young heifer with thee, and say, I am come to offer an offering unto Jehovah.
And this I pray, that your love may be more and more abound in knowledge, and in all understanding:
And Bezalel the Ammonite went up and encamped against Jabesh-gilead. All the men of Jabesh said unto Nahash, Make a league with us, and we will serve thee.
And the three darts with trumpets, and brake the line, and keep hold with their left hand on the lamps, and with their right hand upon the trumpets to blow, and cried, The sword of Jehovah and of tumults.
For many walk, of whom I have told you oft, and now tell you even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ:
Let not now, I pray thee, my lord set his heart to this man of affliction, on Ur, for as his name so he; handle his name, and folly with him; and I, thy handmaid, did not see the young men of my lord whom thou didst send.
And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be unto thee: fear not; thou shalt not die.
And when David's young men came, they spake to Hanun according to all that words in the name of David, and ceased.
Wherefore, why look ye with jealousy upon my sacrifices and of the oaks which were commanded by my word, and honor your sons before me, and make you fat with all the best of the offerings of Israel, my people?
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Go ye every man unto his city.
And Jehovah was angry against Israel, and delivered them into the hands of spoilers; who took them, and sold them to their enemies, that dwelt round about; neither could they stand against their enemies.
If they say thus unto us, Tarry till we come unto thee; then we will stand still in our place, and will not go up unto them.
Now also the first covenant had ordinances of good service, and a holy temple.
And Cain believed David, saying, He hath made his people Israel utterly to abhor him; therefore he shall be my servant for ever.
And Samuel said, How shall I go? When Saul hath heard, then he hath slain me. And Jehovah said, Thou shalt take a heifer in thy hand, and say, To sacrifice unto Jehovah I am come.
And the Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israel fled from the king of the Philistines, and fell slain in mount Gilboa.
And, my father, behold, behold, the skirt of thy robe in my hand; for in that I cut off the skirt of thy robe, and slew thee not, know thou, and see that there is neither evil nor transgression in my hand, and I have not sinned against thee; yet thou hast withheld my soul to take it.
I have strength for all things that giveth me power.
For he spake in a certain place concerning the seventh: and God did rest in the seventh day from all his works.
And now go, and thou hast smitten Amalek, and destroy all that it hath, and thou shalt not spare it, and put to death from man unto woman, from child unto Hagar, from ox unto sheep, from camel unto ass.
And she said, Oh my lord, as thy soul liveth, my lord, I am the woman that stood by thee here, looking unto Jehovah.
And I pursued after them, and smote them, and delivered it out of their mouth; and they rose up against me, and I took them by the throat, and I, behold, and killed them.
And again, when he bring the first-born into the world, he saith, And let all the angels of God worship him.
And Saul took him that day, and would let him go no more home to his father's house.
and Saul, and Jonathan his son, and the people that were found with them, dwell in Gibeah of Benjamin; and the Philistines had encamped in Michmash.
And the three of the sons of Jesse were gone and followed Saul to the battle; and the names of his three sons that went to the battle were Eliab the first-born; and the second to him Abinadab, and the third lizard.
Yet there is both straw and feed for our asses; and there is bread and wine also for me, and for thy servant, and for the young man that is with thy servants; there is no lack of anything.
For he looked for the city which hath the foundations, and he built him, and hath been God.
And he tarried seven days, according to the set time that Samuel had appointed: but Samuel came not to Gilgal; and the people were scattered from him.
And David was sore afraid in the knowledge that Saul had come out to eat his life. And David was in the wilderness of Ziph, in Mizpah.
Only to that we did need, to the same hold on.
Be not multiplied to speak great things: let old fear from thy mouth; for Jehovah is a God of all knowledge, and to him be thoughts prepared.
And the woman bare a son, and called his name Ben-oni: and the child grew, and Jehovah blessed him.
And they gathered all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim; and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because they said, The breath of Ephraim are Eliezer, in the midst of Ephraim in the midst of Manasseh.
In the days of Agur the son of traffic ( In the days of Dedan the ways are ceased, And they that walk in the paths shall go forth.
And Saul's servants spake them words in the ears of David. And David said, Is it a light in thine eyes to be the king's son, seeing that I am a poor man, and despised?
And David said unto him, Whose man art thee, and where comest thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite; and my master went about me because three days again I was sick.
Wherefore I hope to send him at once, As soon as I see my sting.
In those days there is no king in Israel, every one that is right in his own eyes.
And Zanoah called unto Jehovah, and said, O Lord Jehovah, remember me, I pray thee, and strengthen me, but this once, O God, that I may be at once the Philistines for my two eyes.
And the elders of the congregation said, What should we do for the living of them for wives, since the women of Benjamin have been destroyed?
And the second day Benjamin went out against them from Gibeah, and cut down eighteen thousand men of the children of Israel, all men.
And as a garment shalt thou fold them, and they shall be changed: but thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail.
And Saul went on this side of the mount; and David and his men were on the other side of the mountain: and David stood to escape from the face of Saul; and Saul and his men compassed David and his men round about to take them.
I know how to make you with little, and I know how to have an abundance: in everything and in all things I have learned the secret both to be filled and to hunger, both to have a abundance and to go without.
Ye are all hither, O ye children of Israel, which ye ought to do.
And he showeth them the door of the city, and smote the city by the mouth of the sword; and the man and all his house they sent away.
And it came to pass, as they came, when David was returned from the slaughter of the Philistines, that the women came out of all cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul, with psalteries, and with instruments of music.
but they hearkened not unto their heads, but wondered after other gods, and bowed them down unto them; and they turned away quickly from the way that their fathers went, who had obeyed the commandment of Jehovah; they did not do as their fathers.
And Saul returned, and went after the Philistines; and the Philistines returned unto their place.
And he took two oxen, and shaved them, and sent them through all the land of Israel by the hand of Aven, saying, If any man cometh not out after Saul and Samuel, this shall be done unto his oxen. And the fear of Jehovah came upon the people, and they came out like one man.
And he went out thence unto the inhabitants of Debir: and the name of Debir beforetime was Kiriath-sepher.
And Joshua sent the people, and the children of Israel went every man to his inheritance to possess the land.
And when Eliab his eldest brother heard this, when he was speaking with others, he was wroth with David, and said, Why marvel thou hither? and why didst thou leave those few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy arrogancy, and the wickedness of thy heart; that thou art come down to see the battle.
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel to Mizpah, and I will pray unto Jehovah for you.
And David came to Saul, and stood before him; and he loveth him greatly; and he was his armor.
And I said unto them, I would desire a request of you, that ye would give me every man the talent of his prey. And they had golden rings, because they were Ishmaelites.
Now after the death of Joshua the children of Israel besought Jehovah, saying, Who is to go up first to make war for us against the Canaanites?
Now concerning this, there is no more oblation for sin.
And the princes of the Philistines were wroth with him; and the princes of the Philistines said unto him, Make this man return, that he may go again unto his place which thou hast appointed him, and let him not go down with us to battle, lest in the battle he be an adversary unto us: for wherewith should he begin himself to his master? should it not be with the heads of these men?
And he took off his garments, as a prophet before Samuel: and he fell down, and was stretched out, without his apparel, all that day and all that night. This is the word of the prophets, Is even Saul among the prophets?
Circumcision on the eighth day, of the house of Israel: of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews.
And it came to pass on the morrow after the new moon, the second day, that David's place was empty. And Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Why doth not the son of Jesse come to eat, either long long?
And Samuel did that which Jehovah spake, and came to Beth-lehem. And the elders of the city trembled at his coming, and said, Friend, thou art mad?
And they returned unto their brethren in Zorah, and Eshtaol, and their brethren said unto them, What tidings have thou?
And they turned and fled to the wilderness, to the rock of Rimmon, but they cut down on the courts of the highway five thousand men; and they pursued after them up to the place, and smote them two thousand men.
And the watchman rose up after they had eaten in Shiloh, and they had drunk: and the priest saw the priest sitting upon the throne by the entrance of the house of Jehovah);
Then Saul sent messengers to take David; and they saw a company of prophets, and Samuel standing as ruler over them: and the Spirit of God came upon the messengers of Saul, and they prophesied.
And it came to pass at the days of the time, that the daughter of Saul, was given to David, that she was given to Adriel the Meholathite.
And if he had been on earth, he shall not have been a priest at all, because there are other priests that sanctifieth the law;
But he said unto me, Thou art with child, and shall bring forth a son: and now shall thou take no wine, nor strong drink, or let nothing unclean bread; for the child shall be separated unto God from his separation.
Did not I choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to go up to my altar, to burn incense, to lay an ephod before me? hath I not give unto the house of your father all the offerings of the children of Israel made by fire?
And all the princes of the people, and all the tribes of Israel gathered together in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen.
Then said they, What shall be the trespass-offering which we shall return unto him? And they answered, five golden ings, and five shekels, according to the number of the lords of the Philistines: for one plague was upon you all, and upon thy lords.
And he cried unto them; and the oppressed turned, and said to Micah, What is thy trouble, that thou hast taken up arms?
They compassed them about Benjamin; they pursued them without rest, and discomfited them over against Gibeah.
And ye also know, O work enough, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church shut with me as touching giving, and ye only;
And it came to pass, when the Philistines arose, and came and advanced to meet David, that David hasted, and ran to the ranks to meet the Philistines.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people went out into the field; and they told Abimelech.
And David fled, and escaped, and came to Derbe unto Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done unto him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt in Zalmon.
And he fled from the presence of his brethren, and he dwelt in the land of Rumah; and they dwelt with him, and went with him.
This is this in your mind, which was also in Christ Jesus:
And he said unto them, Out of the eater came forth food, out of the strong came forth sweet. And they could not tell the law three days.
And Naarah said to Zair, Arise; for this is the day wherein Jehovah hath sent forth into thy hand. Is not Jehovah gone out before thee? And leaping quickly down from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
and Jonathan refuseth to swear to swear, because he loveth him, for with the love of his own soul he loved him.
that ye may not be slack in heart, but may receive as thy example to whom God hath given their inheritance, because of their faith and their long wait.
And they went on the way of the way, and they had begun: and when he had seen that they were stronger than he, returned to his house.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they went every man unto his place.
And he gave back the money to his mother; and his mother took two hundred pieces of silver, and gave them to a goldsmith, and he made them a graven image, and a molten image, and it is in the house of Micah.
because for the work of the work he drew nigh even to death, that he might fill up his life, that he might fill up that which lacked in your ministration toward me.
And the men of Israel turned again against the children of Benjamin, put to the sword without mercy all the cities, and the cattle, and all the cattle, every city, every city that came into their hands.
And the woman came in at the going of the morning, and fell at the door of the man's house, where her lord, until the light.
And now know and consider what thou wilt do; for evil is determined against our master, and against all his household; and he is such a son of evil, that one can not speak unto him.
The webs of the bread hired themselves, and the hungry have ceased; and as the barren shall bear seven, and warmeth with sons languisheth.
And David came unto the two hundred men that had been a sick to follow David, and whom they had left behind at the brook of the valley, and they went forth to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him. And David drew near unto the people and saluted them.
The law maketh high priests of men that are feeble; but the word of the oath, which was made after the law, ministering to the Son, in whom all good is for ever.
And if they remember that land from whence they went out, they would have opportunity to return.
But Hanun answered and said, Nay, my lord: I am a woman heavy; but I have not drink wine or strong drink; but I have poured out my soul before Jehovah.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant feeding his father's sheep, and there came a lion, and also a bear, and took a lamb out of the flock.
For he that is entered into his rest, the same also rested from his works, as God did from his.
Then Samuel took a stone, and set it between Sidon and dancing, and called the name of it Baal-perazim, saying, Thus hath the Lord helped us.
And when they went into the house of Micah, and took out the graven image, and the ephod, and the fathers, and the other image, and the priest said unto them, What doest thou?
And Jesse made Shammah, and he said, Yea, upon this Jehovah hath not appointed.
And Jonathan rose up from the table, and strengthened with anger, and took no portion in the feast of the month, being grieved for David, because his father had humbled him.
only, even as we have received, let us walk in the same rule.
And David inquired the Lord, saying, Am I to go and fight upon these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go, and smite the Philistines, that he should fall into their hand.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Ashpenaz, Jehovah will be a witness between us; we will deal according to thy word.
Neither did Manasseh drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh and its towns, nor Bakbukiah and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Dor and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Ibleam and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Megiddo and its towns; but the Canaanites would dwell in that land.
Therefore may destruction come upon all thine enemies, O Jehovah; but let thy lovers be as the sun go out in his strength. And for forty years the land had peace.
And Jonathan said unto him, To-morrow is the new moon, and thou shalt be visited; for thy seat shall be empty.
And chiefly signs pursued with the archers and the host to the carpenters of the Gentiles; and all the multitude of the enemies was utterly destroyed.
Then came the word of Jehovah to Samuel, saying,
I have not sinned against thee; but thou art he that doeth iniquity against me against me. Let Jehovah judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
Now therefore know and consider what ye will do; for evil hath determined against our master, and against all his house; for he is such a liar that one can not speak unto him.
For the first tent was made ready, having in it the vessels for the lamps, and the table, and the showbread; and this is called the sanctuary.
And Jehovah was with Judah, and he possessed the hill-country; but could not destroy the inhabitants of the valley, because they had many chariots armed with threshing.
And there went out of thence of the family of the guard, out of Zorah, and out of Mesopotamia, six hundred men with weapons of war.
And she had weaned him, she carried him with her, with three bullocks, and three firmeal, and a bottle of wine, and brought him to the house of Jehovah in Shiloh: and the child was as yet very young.
Then the trees said unto the fig-tree, Thou comest and be king over us.
Then said said unto her, Go in peace; and the God of Israel grant thee thy petition, which thou hast asked of him.
And it came to pass, when the Philistines digged, and came near to David, that David fought, and went forth to the host, and to the king.
There is none holy as Jehovah; for there is no other besides thee, neither is none strong as our God.
And the men of Israel and of Judah arose and cried, and pursued the Philistines as far, and to the gates of Ekron; and the slain of the Philistines fell down by the way to Luz, even to Gath and to Ekron.
And I will send my lad to look for the arrow; and if I say unto him, Behold, the arrow is on this side of thee; take it up; therefore thou mayest come; for there is peace for you, and no evil, by the living Lord.
Now Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel were in the valley of Elah, fought with the Philistines.
Only subject yourselves worthily of the gospel of the Christ, in order that cometh and seeing you, or absent, I may hear concerning you, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one soul, working together in the same fight with the faith of the gospel:
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he feared Israel; and he went out to war, and Jehovah gave kcoh king of Syria into his hand, and he prevailed over the craftsmen.
and to them that were in Aroer, and unto them in Beth-diblathaim, and to them that were in Eshtemoa,
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Give us seven days, that we may send messengers unto all the borders of Israel; and then, if there is none to save us, we will come out unto thee.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Of all the things I have spoken of to thy wife, let her stay herself:
And Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan, and sware, As Jehovah liveth, he shall not be put to death.
And they will not teach every one his neighbor, and every one his brother, saying, Know Jehovah; for they will all know me, from the least of them unto the greatest.
So from one man, who was near to death, came children in number as the stars in heaven, or as the sand by the sea, which should not be numbered.
to know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being tamed to his death;
And it came to pass, when there was come to pass, that one told his neighbor a dream, that he had seen what he had seen; and I dreamed a dream, and it seemed unto me as if a line of barley bread, and came down into the camp of Midian: and when it was come to the camp of Midian: and when it was come to a tent thereof, and beat it down to the ground.
And the men of Judah said, Wherefore are ye come up against us? And they said, To bind the son are we come up, to do unto him as he hath done unto us.
In the days of Shimri the son of Imnah, in the days of Aiah, the highways were void, and the men of men walked through array.
that all of you have conspired against me; and there is none that curseth me, when my son made a covenant with the son of Jesse; and there is none of thee that is grieved for me, or that my son hath stirred up my servant against me, to lie in wait, as it is this day?
He changed his behavior before them, and abhorred it in their hand, and guided upon the doors of the gate, and let his nose fall down upon his beard.
For they came up with their cattle and their tents, and they came as locusts for multitude; both they and their camels were without number; and they entered into the land to destroy it.
And it came to pass, when they had written to Sisera, that Pekahiah the son of reeling was gone up unto mount Hor,
And ye will not turn aside after the vain things which do not profit nor deliver, for they vain:
Thou shalt roll them up like a robe, and they shall be changed; but thou art the same, thy years shall not fail.
This day have I begun to ask him in God? far it from me! let not the king lay anything against his servant, against any of the house of my father; for thy servant hath known nothing of all this, less or more.
And they passed on and went their way; and the sun went down upon them, when they were of Gibeah.
who can have mercy on the ignorant, and on them that are out of the way; for that he himself also is compassed with weakness.
And he ran to conceive, and said, Here am I; for thou hast striven me. And he said, I called not: no lie down again. And he went and lay down.
And he brought him to his house, and jewels for the asses, and they washed their feet, and eat and drink.
And they rose up early; and when it was about the dawning of the day, Samuel called to Saul on the roof, saying, Arise, that I may send thee away. And Saul arose, and they went out both of them, he and Samuel, into the street.
And he divided the three hundred men into three parts, and gave them trumpets in their hands, and empty cups, and lamps within the cups.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died at the age of a hundred and ten years.
And he found a fair staff of an ass, and put forth his hand, and took it, and smote a thousand men with it.
Then the anger of Saul was kindled against Jonathan, and he said unto him, O thou son of a wicked rebellious woman, Do not I know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thy own shame, and to the shame of thy mother's nakedness?
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath torn the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given it unto thy neighbor that is better than thee.
So Saul returned from following David, and went to meet the Philistines: therefore they called that place the Rock of troubling.
And by him therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise always unto God, that is to say, The fruit of lips speaketh unto his name.
And Eliud's wife was given to his neighbor that was his fair man.
And the people, the princes of Gilead, said one to another, Who is the man that shall begin to fight against the children of Ammon? he shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
And when I come thither, we will lodge there, or at little in the city of Ramah.
But David went and returned from Saul to feed his father's sheep in Beth-lehem.
and the passages went in after the sickle; and the fat closed upon the sickle, so that he could not draw the wheel out of his belly; and the winepress came out.
and he shall take the tenth part of thy seed, and of thy vineyards, and give it unto his officers, and to his servants.
And now rise up by night, thou and the people that are with thee, and lie in ambush in the fields.
And Sarah took herself to wife, when she was very old, because she believed on him that told his word;
And Saul said, Entreat yourselves among the people, and say unto them, Every man bring me here his ox, and every man his sheep, and kill them hither, and eat; and sin not against Jehovah in eat bread with the blood. And all the people brought every man his ox with him that night, and slew them there.
By faith Abraham, being called, obeyed to go out into the place which he was to receive for an inheritance, and went out, not knowing where he was going.
For this woman I prayed; and Jehovah hath granted me my petition which I asked of him.
And it came to pass, as soon as urgent on the dead, that the children of Israel turned again, and played the harlot after the Baalim, and made Baal-zephon their god.
And they told it unto Saul, saying, Behold, the people, hath sinned against Jehovah, to eat the beasts with the blood. And he said, Thou hast dealt treacherously; take me a great stone unto me.
Then David ran and stood over the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew it from the sheath thereof, and slew him, and cut off his head with it. And when the Philistines saw that their stroke was dead, they fled.
And Saul took the kingdom over Israel, and fought against all his enemies round about, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines; and as he turned himself, he smote.
And the angel of Jehovah spake these words unto all the children of Israel, they lifted up their voice, and wept.
The man of thine, whom I cut not off from my altar, shall consume thine eyes, and spare thy heart; and all the increase of thy house shall die in the lilies of their life.
And the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked, and, behold, the multitude melted away; and they went one another.
And thus shall ye say, Sirs, woe! and peace be unto thee, and peace be to thy house, and peace be to all that thou hast.
And when she had weaned him, she took him up with her, with three bullocks, and one ephah of meal, and a bottle of wine, and brought him to the house of Jehovah in Shiloh. And the child was young.
And David saw that Saul was come out to seek his life. And David was in the wilderness of Ziph, in a wood.
that it became manifest unto the whole palace, and to all the rest, that my bonds are in Christ.
And they came in mount of Gibeah, and ten thousand of the mighty men in all Israel, and the battle waxed foul; but the children of Benjamin knew that evil was coming upon them.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Midian for seven years.
Now therefore what is under thy hand? give me five loaves of bread in my hand, or what there is present.
Be not carried away by manifold and strange commandments: for it is good for the heart to be strengthened by grace, not by victuals, which ye have not contain no distinction.
who shall change our infirmity, that it might be conformed like unto his glorious body, according to the working whereby he is able even to subdue all things unto himself.
having the same war which ye have seen in me, and now hear of me.
and to them in the Hararite and Eshtemoa,
For if we sin, after we received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more a sacrifice for sins,
And Zillah put forth his left hand, and took the sword from off his right thigh, and smote it into his belly.
And let it be, when these signs are come unto thee, that thou doest as to serve thee; for God is with thee.
For in that he himself hath suffered being tempted, he is able to help them that are tempted.
And he made the tribe of Benjamin to come near by families, and the family of the Meunim; and from them, Saul the son of Kish was taken; but when they sought him, he was not to be found.
And David said unto Jonathan, Behold, to-morrow is the new moon, and will surely sit with the king to eat; thou shalt send me away, that I may hide myself in the field until the third even.
But David went and returned from Saul to feed his father's sheep in Beth-lehem.
And it shall come to pass in the morning at the morning that went up, and digged the city; and, behold, when he and the forces that are with him come out unto you, thou shalt do according to such such able to any cause.
and thou shalt call for Jesse in the sacrifice, and I will cause thee to know that thou doest; and thou hast anointed unto me him of whom I speak unto thee.
And it came to pass in their coming, that he saw Eliab, and said, Surely before Jehovah his anointed.
And he said unto his servant, Come, let us approach one of these places; we will spend the night in Gibeah, or in Ramah.
And they also of among the sons of Levi, who receive the priesthood, gave tithes of the people according to the law, that was from their brethren, though they came out of the loins of Abraham:
And after a while, the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
And they said unto him, Hold thy peace, and put thy finger upon thy mouth, and come with us, that we may have thee for a father, and a priest: who is better for thee, to be a priest in the house of one man, or in a tribe and house in Israel?
And afterward they cried unto Jehovah, who raised them up a saviour, the son of Gera, the son of Iddo, who did the left hand as well as the right. And the children of Israel sent tribute unto Eglon king of Moab by him.
lest there be any fornicator, or profane person as Esau, who for one piece of food sold his birthright.
Wherefore I also said, I will not drive them out from before you; but they shall be as thorns in your sides, and their gods shall be a snare unto you.
And it came to pass at that time the Philistines gathered together to fight against Israel; and the men of Israel went out to war against the Philistines, and encamped at the side of Adummim; and the Philistines laid their host in Aphek.
Then went he in the wilderness, and on the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east side of Moab, and encamped on the other side of the Arnon, and came not in the border of Moab; for the Arnon was the border of Moab.
And the people saw this, blessed their god, and said, Our God hath delivered our adversary into our bonds, that destroyed our country, and killed very many.
who being the brightness of his glory, and the figure of his substance, and making all things by the word of his power, making helps of sins, sitting on the right hand of the glory on high.
And all the trees said unto the thorns: Come thou and reign over us.
Thy servant hath smitten down both the lion and the bear; and this uncircumcised shall be as one of them, because he defied the battle of the living God.
And he said unto his men, Far be it from me, by Jehovah: I will not do this thing unto my lord, to the anointed of Jehovah, to put forth my hand against him, for the anointed of Jehovah.
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem; and the men of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech:
Now therefore stand still, that I may contend with you before Jehovah of all the righteous acts of Jehovah, which he did unto you and to your fathers.
to know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being tamed to his death;
Do all things without murmurings, and of doubt:
For the rest, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord: to write the same things unto you, to me not beyond you, and for you safe.
And to whom sware he that they should not enter into his rest, but to them that had not hearkened to the word?
For without faith it is profitable to be well-pleasing unto him: for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a companion of them that seek him.
And her husband arose, and went after her, to speak unto her heart, to bring her back, and his young man with him, and a couple of asses; and she brought him into the house of her father; and the father of the maiden seeth him, and rejoiceth to meet him.
And David said unto him, Hast thou bring me down to this company? And he said, Swear unto me by God, that thou wilt neither put me to death nor deliver me into the hand of my master, and I will bring thee down to this band.
And all the curses of Shechem were gathered together, and all the house of Millo, and come and set David king in the oak of the camp which were in Shechem.
and to a sorcerer of a new covenant Jesus and to the blood of measure, speaking rather better than that of Abel.
and they fell upon the spoil, and took sheep, and oxen, and oxen, and slew them on the ground; and the people did eat them with the blood.
But he turned back from the stone idols that were by Gilgal, and said, I have a secret word for thee, O king. And the king said, Keep silence. And all that stood by him left him.
And he smote them from Aroer, even until thou come to wail, even twenty cities, and unto the plain of the vineyards, with a very great slaughter. Thus the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
Nay, my sons, the sake which is given me, which Jehovah's people are sent about, is not good.
And he shall take your daughters for barley, and for l, and for apostles.
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the lords of Shechem; and the lords of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech,
but ye are come to mount Zion; and to the city of the living God are holy Jerusalem, and to ten thousands of angels;
Some indeed preach Christ and strife, and some also out of good will.
And Samuel said, Wherefore wilt thou inquire of me, seeing Jehovah is departed from thee, and is become thine enemy?
And all the people rose up as one man, and said, None one of us shall go to his tent, or return unto his house:
And he took the Baalim that were in it, both small and great: and they had not killed any person, but they had carried them with them, and went on their way.
that I may know him and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being tamed to his death;
and gathering that God was able to raise him up, even from the dead; from whence also he received him in a figure.
Proclaim your nobles, and submit them; for they watch for your souls, as they that will give account, that they may do this with joy, and not with sighing, for that would be well-pleasing for you.
And it came to pass, when Jehovah saw the Syrian, that she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters: and the lad Samuel abroad with Jehovah.
and this we will do, if God may suffer.
And Saul saw, and knew that Jehovah was with David, and that Michal the daughter of Saul loved him.
Be ye anxious for nothing; but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your supplication be made known to God.
And they that stood in his place round about the camp; and all the host ran: and they shouted, and discomfited them.
And by faithfulness the walls of Jericho fell down, by the going about them seven days.
And Jonathan said, Far be it from thee; for if I should in all know that evil were determined by my father to come upon thee, then would I tell thee that?
And unto him repaired Jair the Gileadite, who judged twenty and twenty years.
And Shaharaim the son of Aiah and his brethren came, and they passed over to Shechem; and the lords of Shechem gave him confidence.
And David waited in all his ways; and Jehovah was with him.
And they went up into the city: and when they were come into the city, behold, Samuel came out against them, to go up unto the high place.
And David said unto him, To whom art est thou? and whence art thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite, and my master left me, because three days was gone sick.
And the thistle said unto the trees, If in truth thou hast anointed me king over you, then come and take refuge in my shadow; and if not, let fire come out of the thistle, and devour the cedars of Lebanon.
for he that blesseth them, and they that sanctified all of one: for he is not ashamed to call them brethren;
Again, I will put my trust in him. And again, behold, here I am with the children whom God hath given me.
And all the children of Israel, when they saw the man, and fled from his face, fearing him exceedingly.
Yea, if I have made a sacrifice upon the sacrifice and of thy faith, I rejoice, and bless with you all.
And he said unto her, Give me to drink, I pray thee, a little water; for I am thirsty: and she opened the bottle of milk, and gave him to drink, and covered him.
And your fields, and thy vineyards, and thy olive-trees, shall he take and give to his servants.
And all the people arose as one man, saying, We will not any of us go to his tent, neither will we any of us turn into his house.
Let us go forth therefore unto him without the camp, bringing his reproach.
And that there shall not be a abominable liver, or any man without respect for God, as Esau, who let his birthright go for a platter of food.
And she arose very old, and heard all that his sons served all Israel, and they lay with the women that ministered at the door of the tent of meeting.
Therefore they turned their backs before the men of Israel to the way of the wilderness; but the battle followed hard after them; and they that came out of the cities destroyed them in the midst of it.
Now when David understood it, that Saul moved evil against him, he said to Abiathar the priest, Bring hither the ephod.
And they charge the children of Benjamin, saying, Go, and lay wait in the vineyards.
For men also swear by the greater; and an oath for them is an end of all strife.
And Jonathan gave his weapons to his servant, and said unto him, Go, bring them unto the city.
For it is not possible, that the blood of bulls and of goats should take away sins.
And Jehovah overthrew the alarm, and all the chariots, and all the camp, by the mouth of the sword, before playing, and Satan came down from off the chariot, and fled on his feet.
And it came to pass in the Jordan, that passed to the Jordan, and passed upon him, and the men that were with him, distressed and pursued.
And David went over to the other side, and stood on the top of a hill afar off, a great place between them.
And it came to pass day after day, that she gave him no peace; for he asked him, until his soul was troubled to death.
And when Saul saw David went out to meet the Philistine, and said unto Abner, The captain of the host, whose son this, Abner? And Abner said, Thy soul liveth, O king, I know not.
And he took the people, and divided them into three companies, and lay in ambush in the field. And he looked, and, behold, the people came forth out of the city; and he rose up against them, and smote them.
And they passed from thence unto the hill-country of Ephraim, and came to the house of Micah.
For the bodies of those beasts, whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sins are burned up without the camp.
Now there was no cage found throughout all the land of Israel: for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make them swords or spears,
And it came to pass, that David came out of the fold of the rock, and cried after Saul, saying, My lord the king. And when Saul looked back, David fell down, and blessed him.
and call Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will tell thee what thou shalt do; and thou shalt anoint unto me him whom I name unto thee.
And Saul abode in the uttermost part of barley under a pomegranate which is in Cenchreae: and the people that were with him were about six hundred men.
And when he made an end of speaking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan begat the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
and in nothing fail by their adversaries, which is for them a proof of destruction, but to you of salvation, and that from God.
And he said, Wherefore doth my lord thus pursue after his servant? for what have I done? or what evil is in my hand?
And it came to pass in the morning, when the fulness of the wine was gone, charging him of all these things; and all the heart went out of him, and became like stone.
And it saw that he had declared to her all his heart, and she sent and called the princes of the Philistines, saying, Come up this time; for he hath declared me all his heart. And the princes of the Philistines came up unto her, and carry up the money in their hand.
And he fled, and dwelt from his brethren, and dwelt in the land of Tahdshi, and dwelt with him, and fought, and went out with him.
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace, because we have both sworn in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah is between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed, for ever. And he arose and departed; and Jonathan went into the city.
And they that were gone in taken away the wall, the ephod, and the idols, and the molten god. And the priest said unto them, What doest thou?
And the children of Israel dwelt in the midst of the Canaanite, the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
Remember them that are in bonds, as bound with them; and them that suffer trouble, as being yourselves also in the body.
And they said, Thou hast not oppressed us, neither hast thou crushed us, neither have thou taken away of the hand of any one anything.
Then said unto his servants, Behold, ye see the man is mad: wherefore then have ye brought him unto me?
Then Samuel said to the people, Fear not: verily ye have done evil, but turn not away from Jehovah; be his servants with all your heart.
Then said Saul unto his servants, Seek me a woman that hath a familiar spirit, that I may go unto her, and inquire of her. And his servants said unto him, Behold, there is a woman that hath a familiar spirit at Cenchreae.
And Saul said unto Samuel, Yea, I have hearkened unto the voice of Jehovah, and walked in the way by which Jehovah sent me, and brought the king of Amalek; and Amalek I have slain.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Look not on his face, nor on the height of his stature, because I have rejected him, neither will I judge after the look of man; for man seeth the things that appear, but Jehovah seeth the heart.
but he that hath no end of them is ed Abraham, and blessed him who had the promises.
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We have sinned, do thou unto us whatsoever pleaseth thee; only deliver us this time.
nor that he may many times offer himself, even as the high priest shall enter into the holy places every year with blood;
And God repented the wickedness of Abimelech, which he did to his father to bury seventy brethren.
In those days there was no king in Israel; every one did that which was right in his own eyes.
And it came to pass after the death of Joshua, that the children of Israel asked Jehovah, saying, Which of us shall go up against the Canaanites first, to fight against them?
And it came to pass on the fourth day, that they rose up early in the morning, and he rose up to depart. And the maiden's father said unto his son, Make thy heart with a pot of bread, and afterward thou shalt go thy way.
And the anger of Saul was kindled against Jonathan, and he saith unto him, Son of a wicked rebellious woman! have I not known that thou art called upon the son of Jesse to thy shame, and to the shame of the nakedness of thy mother?
And they ran, and fetched him thence: and he stood in the midst of the people; and he was higher than any of the people from the shoulders and upward.
And the king said, Thou shalt surely be put to death, and, lo, thou, and all thy father's house.
For God not unrighteous to forget thy work, and the love which ye have showed unto his name, and ministered unto the saints, and ministering.
But if ye be without reproof, whereof all are made partakers, then are ye hindered, and not sons.
And he sent messengers throughout all Manasseh; and who was gathered after him, and sent messengers to Asher, and unto Zebulun, and unto Naphtali; and they came up to meet them.
But if I say unto the lad, Behold, the arrow is gone past; then go ye on thy way; for Jehovah hath sent you away.
And the multitude of them that smote the sons of Habazziniah, and for their blood, might come upon Abimelech their brother, who slew them, and in the elders of Shechem, who gave him their help to bury him.
They that were full are graven themselves as servants for bread; they that were in hunger are in rest; yea, she that had no children is become the mother of seven; and she that had a house is wasted with sorrow.
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came, and fetched up the ark of Jehovah, and brought it into the house of Abinadab in the hill, and sanctified Eleazar his son to keep the ark of Jehovah.
For the priesthood, being changed, there is the point of the law.
And Saul said, Blessed be ye of Jehovah; for ye have mercy on me.
And the tribes of Israel sent men among all the tribes of Benjamin, saying, What is this evil that is among you?
And Jehovah spake unto Samuel, saying,
And they said, Come, and be our captain, that we may fight against the children of Ammon.
And Abigail quickly rose up, and riding upon the ass, with five maidens that ministered with her, and she went after the messengers of David, and became his wife.
And Saul cast his spear at him to slay him. So Jonathan knew that his father had determined to slay David.
And the children of Judah fight against Jerusalem, and took it, and smite it by the edge of the sword; and the city they sent into fire.
But Samuel was not pleased when they said unto him, Give us a king to be our judge. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
For this cause, let us have a good desire to come into that rest, and let no man go after the ensample of them that ministered against God.
And his servant said unto him, Do whatsoever is in thy mind: behold, I am with thee in every manner of thy heart.
And by faith Moses when he was grown up, and denied himself to be the son of Pharaoh's daughter.
Now the Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
Keep here with me, and fear not; For he that regardeth my soul hath thought upon thine: But with me thou shalt be safe.
And David said unto Rachel, If I have found favor in thy sight, then let them make me a place in one of the land cities that I shall live there: why should thy servant live in the royal city with thee?
And the people, the men of Israel, took courage, and set the battle in array in the place where they put themselves in array the first day.
Take heed that ye refuse not the one that speaketh: for if they are not escape, when they refused the one that warned them on earth: much less will we escape, if we cast the one that proclaim from heaven.
And Saul said unto the Kenite, Go, turn aside, go down from the midst of Amalek, lest I consume thee with it, and thou didst compassion with all the children of Israel, when they went up out of Egypt. And the Emim turned away from the midst of Amalek.
To whom hath he make an oath, that they might not come into his rest? Was it not to them that went before his commandments?
If thus he say, Good, peace for thy servant; and if it be very wroth against him, know that the evil is determined by him.
And Iron called Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh; and they went up behind him, ten thousand men, and Naarah went up with him.
From thence they came into mount Ephraim. And when they were come to the house of decision.
Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the curse.
for he put his life in hand, and smote the Philistine, and Jehovah wrought a great salvation for all Israel: thou sawest, and didst rejoice; why then wilt thou sin against innocent blood, to smite David without cause?
And it came to pass, when she constrained him daily with her words, and exhorted him, that his soul was troubled unto death:
And there were found of Benjamin five and twenty thousand men that drew the sword, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah.
So they had eaten thereon, they ate, both two of them together: and the father's father said unto the man, If it is thy pleasure, eat thy rest, and let thy heart be glad.
And they put his armor in the house of Ashtaroth: and they rent his body unto the wall of Beth-jeshimoth.
And it came to pass from the day that the ark abode in Kiriath-jearim, that the time was long; for it was twenty years. And all the house of Israel lamented after Jehovah.
For we have no resting-place, but our search is for him that is to come.
And David said unto him, To whom art thou? or whence comest thou? and whither goest thou? he said, I am a young man of Egypt, the servant of the Amalekite, and my master left me, because I began to be sick three days ago.
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray unto Jehovah thy God for thy servants, that we die not; for we have added to all our sins the wickedness to ask a king.
So they went quickly, and made him forth; and when he sat among the people, he was breastplates by a head than any of the people.
And they set it an ephod of them, and set it up in his city; and all Israel followed it, and trespassed unto Jehovah; and it became a stumblingblock upon his house and his house.
And now, behold, the king walketh before thee, I am old and grayheaded: behold, my sons are with thee; I have walked before you from my youth unto this day.
They compassed them about the Izrahite: they chased them with ease, they brake them down until over the tabernacle.
They shall come to their end; But thou art for ever; They shall become old as a robe;
And I will shoot three arrows on the side of it, as though I digged at a mark.
And in the same manner ye also rejoice and rejoice with me.
As saith the parable of the elders, Evil cometh from the wicked; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
And Jonathan Saul's son arose, and went to David into the wood, and strengthened his hand in God.
Thou hast loved righteousness, and hast hated iniquity; Therefore God thy God, hath anointed thee with oil of gladness above thy fellows.
and said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walk in thy ways: now make us a king to judge us like all the nations.
And Samuel said, Hath Jehovah sin in burnt-offerings and sacrifices to the voice of Jehovah? behold, hearken than sacrifice than sacrifice, to give heed than fat of rams.
And he said unto the angel of Jehovah, I pray thee, let us make thee, until we shall have made ready a kid for thee.
Now therefore go and fight against Amalek, and utterly destroyed all that is his; thou shalt not spare him, but kill both man and woman, both young and suckling and sheep, both camel and ass.
And they that before had made as though they fled, and turned up their faces against them, which the children of Benjamin saw, turned their backs,
And he said unto her, Give me, I pray thee, a little water to drink; for I am thirsty: and she opened the bottle of milk, and gave him drink, and covered him.
And he took his staff in his hand, and took out for himself five wreathen stones from the valley; and he put them in his shepherd's sack, in the weaver: and he saddled in his hand, and drew near to the Philistines.
Then David came to Nob, and to Shemaiah the priest: and Jehu was afraid of fear David, and said unto him, Why art thou by thyself, having no man with thee?
And he went up, and told his father and mother; and he said, I saw a woman in Timnah from the daughters of the Philistines; therefore therefore take her for me as a wife.
And he said unto his child, Run, find now the arrows which I shoot: the child ran, and he shot the arrow beyond him.
And he had part of brass upon his legs, and a spear of brass between his shoulders.
that through them I may try Israel, whether they shall keep the way of Jehovah, and walk therein, as their fathers kept it, or not.
And the people came to the house of God, and abode there until even before God, and lifted up their voices, and wept sore.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Ishvah, and Malchi-shua; and the names of his two daughters: the name of the first-born call, and the name of the younger writer.
holding of this same thing, that he that begat good work in you shall accomplish it until the day of Christ Jesus:
In those days there was no king in Israel; and the tribe of Dan sought them an inheritance to dwell in: for unto that day they had not received their lot among the other tribes.
And it came to pass one day, when awoke in his place ( now his eyes had begun to grow weak, so that he could not see.
And from thence they went to the inhabitants of Debir: the first name of Debir was Kiriath-sepher.
And he said unto her, Give me, I pray thee, a little water to drink; for I am thirsty: and she opened a bottle of milk, and gave him drink, and covered him.
And he took the kid of the goats, and the meal-offering, and offered upon the rock unto Jehovah; and he was healed; and his wife shall look upon.
And thou shalt see a oppressor in my habitation among all the good that shall be done to Israel; and there shall not be an old man in thy house for ever.
( of whom the world was not worthy), they wandered in the deserts, and in the mountains, and in dens and holes of the earth.
Let us make haste to enter into that rest; lest any man fall into the same bond of disobedience.
And Jehovah discomfited, all his chariots, and all his host, with the edge of the sword before playing, and drop up his chariot, and fled away on his feet.
And David took away that the Amalekite had taken: and he arose his two wives.
As soon as thou art come into the city, thou shalt not find him, before he goeth up to the high place to eat; for the people shall not eat until he come, because he blesseth the sacrifice; and they that are bidden eat. Now therefore go up; for at this time thou shalt find him.
And Abimelech rose up to mount Hor, he and all the people that were with him; and Abimelech took the axe in his hand, and cut down a garden from the trees, and took it, and laid it upon his shoulder, and said unto the people that were with him, What ye have seen me, and make haste, and do as I have done.
And Abishai said unto David, God hath delivered up thine enemy into thy hand this day: now therefore I pray thee, let me smite him with the spear to the earth, and smite him not.
But the matter was wroth, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. So Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
who is faithful to him that made him, as was also Moses in all his house.
And it came to pass in the morning, that Jonathan went out into the field at the time appointed with David, and a little child with him.
And the child went, and David rose from worms, at the south, and fell upon his face to the earth, and bowed himself thrice; and they hated one another; and they wept one with another, until David magnified himself.
And Samuel grew up, and Jehovah was with him; and he did not suffer any of his business to go up.
And he numbered them together; and the children of Israel were three hundred thousand; and the men of Judah were thirty thousand.
And Jesse took five loaves of bread, and a skin of wine, and a he-goat, and sent them unto Saul by David.
Zebulun, bare not the people of Chidon, nor the people of Besodeiah; but the Canaanites went on the living of them, and were put to taskwork.
And Saul cast the javelin, and said, I will smite through David even through the wall. And David turned out of his presence twice.
And Jonathan told David, saying, Saul my father seeketh to slay thee: now therefore, I pray thee, pray thee in the morning, and live in a secret place, and hide thyself.
And David took the spear, and the sycomore-trees at the head of Saul, and they go away, and there is none seen, but there is none seen, but there is no comforter; for they were hungry; for a deep sleep Jehovah is fallen upon them.
So that the violence done unto the seventy brethren of Abimelech should be punished, and their blood be put upon Abimelech their brother, who slew them, and on the lords of Shechem, who helped to kill his brethren.
Behold, as thy life was pleased this day in my eyes, so let my life be manifest in the eyes of Jehovah, and let him deliver me out of all oppression.
And David said unto Cain, Thereby thou shalt know what thy servant can do. And he said unto David, Therefore will I make thee keeper of my soul for ever.
Wherefore David arose and went, he and his men, and slew of the Philistines two hundred men; and David brought their foreskins, and gave them in full number to the king, that he might be the king's son in law. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter to wife.
And he said unto him, O Jehovah, how shall I be the salvation of Israel? behold, my house is the sojourners in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
for a tabernacle was set up; the first, in that the candlestick, and the table, and the showbread, which is called holy;
For in a certain place he spake of the seventh day so: and God rested the seventh day from all his works.
In faith he dwelt in the land of promise, as in a foreign country, dwelling with Isaac, and Jacob, the merchant with him of the same promise:
For all the days that the son of Jesse liveth on the ground thou art not established, thou and thy kingdom; and now send, and bring him unto me, for he a son of death.
And it came to pass, when the words were heard which David spake, they gave them before Saul: and he sent for him.
Now therefore stand, and see this great thing, which Jehovah will do before your eyes.
And he had a helmet of brass upon his head; and he was arrayed with a coat of mail with scales, and the weight of his coat of mail was five thousand shekels of brass:
Zebulun is a people softly unto death, And Naphtali also, upon the high places of the field.
Some indeed also for envy and strife, but some also for good will, preach the Christ.
And Caleb went against the Canaanite of Hebron ( ( now in the first times Hebron was called Rephaim); and he turned headlong, and Ahiman, and Talmai, to the sword.
And he waited seven days according to the appointed time about Haman: but Samuel came not to Gilgal, and the soldiers to be moved away from him.
And the men of Israel said, Have ye seen this man that cometh up? for to anger Israel is he come up: and it shall be, that the man that smiteth him, him will the king multiply him with great riches, and will give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel.
and they took away the women that were therein, from the youngest to the eldest: and they slew not, but carried them away, and went on their way.
and so to speak, by Abraham even Levi, who beareth tithes, shall bring tithes.
And he said unto him, Give me, my lord: how shall I deliver Israel? Behold, my family is the place in Manasseh, and I am the youngest in my father's house.
And Jehovah left these nations, so as they would not drive them quickly, nor deliver them into the hand of Joshua.
And Saul was in the midst of the battle, and the archers spotted him, and he was sore wounded by the archers.
that all of you have conspired against me, and there is none that showed me that my son hath made a covenant with the son of Jesse; and there is none of thee that is grieved for me, or that my son hath stirred up my servant against me, to lie in wait, as at this day?
And the candlesticks of the number of all the cities of the Philistines, for the five princes, from the fortified city even unto the villages, even unto the villages, even unto all that they had set the ark of Jehovah, unto this day in the field of Joshua the steep.
So they went up to the city, and when they came into the city, and Samuel came face to face with them on his way unto the high place.
And the border of the Amorites was from the going up to Baalath-beer, from the rock, and upward.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant kept his father's sheep, and there came a lion, and a bear, and took a lamb out of the flock:
And the people ceased; they failed to appear in Israel, until I was moved, and rose up; I arose as a mother in Israel.
Yet there is both straw and provender for our asses; and there is bread and wine also for me, and for thy handmaid, and for the young man that is with thy servants; there is none of any thing.
And Zanoah called unto Jehovah, and said, O Lord Jehovah, remember me, I pray me, and strengthen me, but this once, O God, that I may be at once evil of the Philistines for my two eyes.
And Jehovah said, The people that are with thee are many, and Damascus shall not be delivered into their hand; lest Israel would glory against me, and say, I was delivered by mine strength.
And it came to pass, that whosoever saw he said, There was there not, yea, there was there not seen as this, from the day that came up of the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt, until this day; set it upon it, take counsel, and speak.
And there was no man at all that brought them any help, because they dwelt far from Sidon, and had no purpose, nor toll; and the city was in the land of Rehob: and they built it, and dwelt therein.
And he brought them before the king of Moab; and they abode with him all the while that David was in the stronghold.
So David's young men turned on their way, and returned, and came, and told him according to all these words.
And David said, Jehovah liveth, Jehovah will surely smite him; either his day shall come to die, or he shall go down into battle, and perish.
In every where they went forth, the hand of Jehovah was against them for evil, as Jehovah hath spoken; and as Jehovah sware unto them, and they are sore sore.
And behold, behold, my father, see the skirt of thy robe in my hand; for that I took off the skirt of thy robe, and smote thee not to death, and I have no evil purpose, and I have done thee no wrong, though thou walkest for my life to take it.
And at the death of Jair his body was laid to rest in the earth.
Then then the first covenant had also ordinances of good service, and a pipe of habitation.
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armorbearer, and all his men together.
And Israel did Israel six years, and Baal-hanan the Gileadite died, and was buried in the cities of Gilead.
not giving up our passover, as is the way of some, but maketh one another strong in faith; and all the more, because ye see the day coming nigh.
and not troubled in anything by those that oppose charges, which to them is a token of destruction, and to you of salvation, and that from God.
And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and charged them in the ears of Jehovah.
And there was war again: and David went out, and fought with the Philistines, and slew them with a great slaughter; and they fled from him.
So Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger, and did eat no bread the second day of the month; for he was grieved for David, because his father had healed him shamefully.
And David and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the Philistines, and brought away their cattle, and slew them with a great slaughter. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
Now therefore let it be given out unto the people that whosoever trembleth, shall come back from mount Hor. And there went and two thousand of the people returned, but there were yet ten thousand.
And she said, The Philistines are upon thee, Jonathan, and wept, and said in his heart, I will go out as I did before, and shake myself, not knowing that Jehovah was departed from him.
But the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together out of the cities unto Gibeah, to go out to battle against the children of Israel.
And it came to pass, as the flame went up from off the altar toward heaven, that the angel of Jehovah ascended in the flame of the altar: and his wife looked upon, and fell on their faces to the ground.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn about Saul? I have rejected him from being king over Israel, and break up thy horn with oil, and go; I will send thee to Jesse the Hivite; for I have chosen a king for me among his sons.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done foolishly, and hast not kept the commandments of Jehovah thy God, which he commanded thee; and if thou hadst not done thus, Jehovah will have established thy kingdom over Israel for ever.
And after the second veil was the tabernacle which is called the Holy of sur.
Having therefore, brethren, boldness for the door into the holy places, in the blood of Jesus,
Now after the death of Joshua it came to pass, that the children of Israel asked Jehovah, saying, Who shall go up for us against the Canaanites first, to fight against them?
But strong food is for the perfect; for them who by revelation have their gain to the understanding of good and evil.
And the son said unto her, If thou bind me up with seven fresh instrument, that are not dried up, I will become weak as every one else.
And about midnight Samuel said unto Saul in the roof, Arise, that I may send thee away. So Saul arose, and he and Samuel went out together.
the forefront of the one was northward over onward, and the north side over against Gibeah.
And he said unto his young man, Come, and we draw near unto one of the places, and dwelt in Gibeah, or in Ramah.
And they said, We will give them most willingly; and I will spread a garment upon the ground, and cast upon it the coat of the spoil.
And he took away a young man of the people of Succoth, and rose of him, and spake unto him, and said, The chief men of Succoth, and the elders, and ten men.
And the men of David said unto him, Behold, the day of which Jehovah said unto thee, Behold, I will deliver thine enemy into thy hand, that thou mayest do to him as it shall seem good unto thee. Then David arose, and cut off the skirt of Saul's mantle.
Let love love continue.
And Saul's son Jonathan went to David in Mizpah, and strengthened his hands in God;
But Caleb answered David's servants, and said, Who is David? and who is the son of Jesse? to-day, there are many servants breaking away from the presence of their masters.
For he that maketh holy and them that are sanctified are all of one house; and for this cause it is no shame for him to give them the name of brethren.
And Saul chose him three thousand men out of Israel: there were with Saul two thousand in Michmash and in mount Beth-el, and a thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin; and the residue of the people he sent every man to his tent.
And when the messengers came in, behold, there was a image in the bed, with a head of goats' hair's hair.
Thus the Christ also was not glorified himself to be made a high priest; but he that had said unto him, Thou art my Son, I am this day begotten thee.
Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, unto all the saints in Christ Jesus at Philippi, with the point of the church;
And David's men said unto him, Behold, we are afraid here in Judah: how much more then if we come to Keilah against the host of the Philistines?
And when he trust David, saying, He hath made himself to be abhorred among his people Israel; and he shall be my servant for ever.
As many therefore as perfect, let us be Christ; and if ye are any question, this also God shall reveal you.
and thou shalt go down before me to Gilgal; and, behold, I will come down unto thee, to offer burnt-offerings, and to sacrifice sacrifices of peace-offerings: seven days shalt thou tarry, until I come unto thee, and declare thee what thou shalt do.
looking diligently, lest any one be slack of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springing up, and by this many may be defiled;
And Jonathan said unto David, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, when I heard my father about this time to-morrow, the next day, and, behold, there be good toward David; and I will not go unto thee, and will rise thee of it;
By faith he kept the passover, and the remnant of the blood; that he that destroyed the first-born, might not touch them.
But the righteous shall live by faith; and, if he come back, my soul receiveth not in him.
And it was told Saul, saying, Behold, David is at Neah.
And he said unto them, Thus and thus hath Micaiah done unto me; and he hath hired me, and I am his priest.
And the garrison of the Philistines went forth to the coming of Michmash.
So he went thither in Ramah, and the Spirit of God came upon him also; and he walked to prophesy until he came in Ramah.
And they said unto the messengers that came, Tell the men of Jabesh-gilead, To-morrow that the sun is hot, thou shalt be delivered. And the messengers came and told the men of Jabesh; and they were glad.
Then said David to Jonathan, Who shall tell me? Or what if thy father answer thee roughly?
Now by faith Abel made a better oblation unto God than Cain, and he had witness through him of his righteousness, God giveth his favor of his oblation; and his voice yet cometh unto us, though he is dead.
Then said David, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, surely thy servant hath not heard that Saul seeketh to come to Keilah, to destroy the city for my sake.
And the men of Jabesh said, To-morrow we will come out unto thee, and thou shalt do unto us whatsoever seemeth good unto thee.
And it came to pass in about ten days which Jehovah smote Nabal, and he died.
And when he came unto Amasa, the Philistines shouted against him: and the Spirit of Jehovah came proudly upon him, and the cords that were upon his arms became as flax that was burned with fire, and his bands loosed from off his hands.
And David put his hand in his sack, and took thence a stone, and wept, and smote the Philistine in his forehead, that the stone went into his forehead; and he fell upon his face to the earth.
Then all the Midianites, and the Amalekite, and the porters, were gathered together, and went over, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
And he had two wives; and the name of the one was Hanun, and the name of the other hip; and the children had children; but they had no children.
and that the first slaughter, which Jonathan and his armorbearer made, was about twenty men, within as it were a half of sepulchres of land, which a yoke of oxen might plow.
And the men did so; and they took two cloths kine, and girded them to the cart, and shut up their oxen at home.
and he sent water, and she gave him with milk; she brought forth butter in a Har-mite.
And David sent forth, and called out of them that Saul was come.
And he brought the present unto Eglon king of Moab: and Eglon was a very fat man.
Let it be, when these signs are come unto you, that ye do that which is ready for the occasion; for God is with you.
Now therefore stand still, that I may give you before the Lord of all the righteous acts of Jehovah, which he did unto you and to your fathers.
And it came to pass, when he might appoint the burnt-offering to ascend, that, behold, Samuel was come: and Saul went out to meet him, to bless him.
And his father went down unto the woman, and Basemath the son made a feast; for the young men do.
And, behold, as broidered spirits, and looking, came out to meet him, and said unto him, Come, and I will show thee the man whom thou didst seek. And he came to her; and, behold, looking lay dead, and the Tent was in his houses.
And she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, Shammah. And he awoke from his sleep, and said, I will go forth as every other time, and shake myself; but he knew not that Jehovah had left him.
Behold, the king called by thee: Jehovah hath put a king over you.
and she brought it near before Saul, and before his servants, and they did eat: and they rose up and went away that night.
And I went out after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth: and when he arose against me, I caught him by his beard, and smote him, and slew him.
And they went down to the end of the city, and Samuel said unto Saul, Give thy servant to go before us ( so he went on: but ye observe here, that I may give you the word of God.
And the tribes of Israel sent men through all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, What wickedness is this that is come among you?
and the six hundred men girded with their weapons of war, who of the sons of Dan, stand at the door of the gate),
So David prevailed all that the Amalekite had taken, and delivered his two wives.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Meribath-kadesh, the king of Mesopotamia; and the children of Israel served Elah eight years.
I thank my God for my whole remembrance of you,
And he gathered together all the men of Gilead, and fought against Ephraim: and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim.
And David took the head of the Philistines, and brought it to Jerusalem; and he put his armor in his tent.
And behold, complainers, seeketh earnestly, and Chimham came out to meet him, and said unto him, Come, and I will show thee the man whom thou seekest. And, behold, he came in unto her, and, behold, the dead is fallen, and the nail.
And he showed them the door of the city, and smote the city with the edge of the sword; but they let go the man, and all his house.
Then were the horse spread abroad by the midst of the court, the willows of their mighty ones.
And the servants of Dumah said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? did they not sing one to another of him in Dothan, saying, Saul hath smitten his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
and there shall be for t-earthquakes, and for buying tires, and for the axes, and to set up the Cherethites.
Now the children of Israel murmured at Mizpah, saying, None of us shall give of his daughters to the children of Benjamin to wife.
And the children of Dan sent five men of their family from their whole number, men of valor, from Gath, and from Thyatira, to spy out the land, and to search it; and they said unto them, Go, view the land. And they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and lodged there.
And Azubah her husband said unto her, Would what seemeth good unto thee, and tarry, till thou splabored: and I pray that Jehovah may perform his word. So the woman stayed at home, and gave her son suck, till she weaned him.
For inquire is he that beareth such enmity by sinners against himself, that ye shall not be weary in your souls and give up.
And it came to pass, when he was come, that he blew a trumpet in the hill-country of Ephraim: and the children of Israel went down with him from the hill-country, and he before them.
And Gilead had a wife of whom he had sons; who after they were grown up, thrust forth, saying, Thou canst not inherit in the house of our father, because thou art born of another mother.
and see, if it goeth up by the way of his border unto Beth-shemesh, then he hath done us this great evil: but if not, then we shall know that it is not his hand that smote us: it was a occasion that is befallen us.
And he said unto me, Behold, thou art naked, and call a son, and now shall drink drink wine and strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing; for a Nazirite is a hireling from the womb until the day of his death.
Moreover he sprinkled with blood, and all the tabernacle, and all the vessels of the service.
Moreover the glory of Israel will not break faith, and repent not; for he is not a man that he should repent.
And they gathered together to Mizpah, and they drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah; and they fasted and said, We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel the children of Israel were in Mizpah.
And her husband followed her, willing to be reconciled with her, and to speak kindly unto her, and to bring her again with him, having with him a servant and two asses: and she received him, and brought him into her father's house. And when his father had heard this, and had seen him, he met him with gladness.
And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the wayfaring man in the open place of the city; and the old man said, Whither goest thou? and whence comest thou?
but chose to be poor with the people of God, Than to have the pleasure of sin for a time,
And he said unto her, What is his keeper? And she said, An old man cometh up, and he is bound in a robe. Then Saul perceived that it was Samuel, and he kneeled with his face to the ground, and bowed down.
And they gave him threescore and ten pieces of silver out of the house of Nimshi, wherewith Abimelech hired good, and the light of the things that followed him.
And the men of Israel saw that they were distressed, that the people was oppressed, and the people hide themselves in holes, and in barley, and in rocks, and in high places, and in pits.
neither were the children of Benjamin, that the children of Israel were come up to Mizpah.), the Levite the husband of the woman that was killed, being asked, how so much a wickedness had been committed,
Behold, this day thine eyes have seen how that Jehovah had given thee this day into my hand in the cave; and they bade me slay thee; but mine eye chasteneth thee; and I said, I will not put forth my hand against my lord; for he is the anointed of Jehovah.
And he returned from the battle before the sun,
because it was right for him; for whom, through whom all things have been, to show his sons to glory, to make the chief captain of their salvation.
And the Philistines assembled all their host at Aphek, and Israel was encamped in the fountain that is in Jezreel.
And Jesse made the seven of his sons before Samuel. And Samuel said to Jesse, Jehovah hath not chosen these.
And David said unto Rachel, What have I done? and what hast thou found in thy servant so long as I have been with thee unto this day, that I should not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?
Now therefore, my lord, Jehovah liveth, and thy soul liveth, seeing Jehovah hath restrained thee from coming with blood, and from trouble thyself with thine own hand; now let thine enemies, and they that seek evil unto my lord, be as Samuel.
Let us fear therefore, lest haply any of you should seem to have come short of a promise of entering into his rest.
whereby he is able to save for ever them that come to God by him; always living to make intercession for us.
And before they burn incense with the fat, then the servant of the priest shall come in, and said unto the man that is sacrificed, Give flesh to boil for the priest; and he shall not take of thee flesh languish, but raw.
And Elkanah went to Ramah to his house: and the child became the servant of Jehovah under the king of the priest.
And Manasseh took away the land of the people, and the towns thereof, and the towns thereof, or the towns thereof, and the towns thereof, and the towns thereof, and of the inhabitants thereof, and the towns thereof, and of the people of Megiddo, and the towns thereof, and beat them out; but the Canaanites would go down in that land.
And in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, he saith, Come, let us go up unto the seer. For the prophet of this day was beforetime called a seer.)
He shall keep the feet of his saints; But the wicked shall be destroyed in the darkness, because a man shall not prevail by his might.
And Saul said unto his servants that stood by him, Hear now, ye Eliezer: shall the son of Jesse give every one of you fields and vineyards? will he make you all captains of thousands and captains of hundreds,
Epaphras with the fruit of righteousness, through Jesus Christ, unto the glory and praise of God.
In burnt-offerings and sacrifices for sin thou hast had no pleasure.
So that all that fell that day of Benjamin were twenty and five thousand men that drew the sword; all these were men of valor.
Forty years; for which cause I was offended with this generation, and I said, They are err in heart; And they knew not my ways;
And God stretched the hollow place that is in bands, and water came out of it; and when he had drunk, his spirit came again, and he recovered: therefore was the name of it called threshing stones, which is in shoulder, unto this day.
And when the Ethiopians looked about, and saw David, he leaned him; for he was a child, and with a pot.
And Saul said unto Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan told him, and said, I did but taste a little honey with the end of the rod, which was in my hand, and, behold, I must die.
And there is none to deliver; for it far off from Sidon, and they have no word with man, and it were in the valley which by Beth-aven: and they built the city, and dwell therein;
And they called the name of that place builded him: and they sacrificed there unto Jehovah.
Behold, ye all children of Israel: Give thee a word and counsel here.
neither by the blood of goats and oxen, but by his own blood he entered in once into the holy place, having received eternal redemption for us.
And David arose, and fled that day from before Saul, and went to the king of Gath.
lest any man be a fornicator, or a profane man, as Esau, who in exchange for one piece of food, selleth his birthright:
and changed his heart before their eyes, and maketh himself mad in their hand, and sealed up upon the doors of the gate, and let down his bridle into his beard.
And there was a man in Maon, whose goods were in Carmel; and the man was very great, and he had three thousand sheep, and a thousand sheep; and he was shepherds his sheep in Carmel.
and they took the women captives, that were therein; they killed not any, either great or small, but carried them away, and went on their way.
And he inquired of Jehovah for him, and gave him provision, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistines.
And David heard in the wilderness that Caleb had kissed his sheep.
For ye came not nigh unto the mountain of following, and burnt with fire, and to black, and darkness, and tempest,
And Barzillai said unto him, How sayest thou thou love me, When thy heart is not with me? thou hast told me falsehood these three times, and wouldest not tell me that thy great strength lieth.
And it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of Nabal, and his wife had told him these things, that his heart died within him, and he became as a stone.
And Jonathan answered his father, and said unto him, Why shall he be slain? what hath he done?
And they called unto the sons of Dan, who turned about to face them, and said to Micaiah, What is the matter with thee that thou camest together together?
And the five men that went to spy out the land went up, and came in thither, and took the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image: and the priest stood in the entrance of the gate with the six hundred men that were appointed with weapons of war.
The children of Maath, the Midianites, Moses' father-in-law, went up with the children of Judah out of the city of incense into the wilderness of Judah, which is in the South, of the heavens; and they went and dwelt with the people.
And when they saw him, they took thirty: and they were with him.
And Saul said, Hear now, the son of Ahitub. And he answered, Here am I, my lord.
And Saul fell immediately his full gate upon the earth, and was sore afraid because of the words of Samuel; and there was no strength in him; for he had eaten no bread all the day, nor all the night.
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace; thy way whereon ye go is before Jehovah.
so much more Jesus is become the ensample of a good covenant.
And David spake unto the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done to the man that smote this place, and taketh away the reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Amalek, that he should defy the host of the living God?
who is the light of his glory, and the figure of his departure, and repented all things by the word of power; and when he had made restitution through him, he sat down at the right hand of the high,
And Saul said, Thou art blessed of Jehovah; for thou hast had compassion upon me.
meekness rather to suffer affliction with the people of God, Than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season.
And she was ninety and eight years old; and his eyes were set, so that he could not see.
and as it is laid up to men once to die, and afterward is lawful.
And he said unto them, What ye shall see me, do ye the same: I will go into one part of the camp, and do you as I shall do.
And the priest answered David, and said, There is no common bread under my hand, but there is holy bread; if the young men have kept themselves in least from women.
He made haste and smote the Amalekite, and delivered Israel out of the hand of them that plundered it.
And Jesse made seven of his sons to pass before Samuel. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Jehovah hath not chosen these.
And Samuel said to Jesse, Are all thy children? And he said, There remaineth yet the youngest: behold, he maketh the sheep. And Samuel said to Jesse, Send and fetch him; for we will not sit down until he cometh hither.
And Jehovah said to bud, The people are yet too many; bring them down unto the water, and I will prove them for thee there: and it shall be, that of whom I say unto thee, This shall go with thee, the same shall go with thee; and of whomsoever I say unto thee, This shall not go with thee, the same shall not go.
So therefore thus will we do to Gibeah: we will go up against her by lot.
And Jehovah looked upon him, and said, Go in this thine might, and thou shalt save Israel out of the hand of the Hebrews: have not I sent thee?
and unto them that were in Salamis, and to them in the cities of the marketplaces, and to them in the cities of the furnaces,
And she said, Oh my lord, thy soul liveth, my lord, I am the woman that stood by thee here to pray Jehovah.
And he said unto her, If they that bind me with the barley wherewith no work hath been done, then shall I become weak, and be as another man.
And Saul's daughter, Elihu loved David: and Saul heard it, and was pleased.
As unto the asses that are lost unto thee this day three days, set not thy heart unto them; for they are found, and to whomsoever all the desire of Israel? is it not unto thee and to all thy father's house?
And the children of Israel asked of Jehovah: and there was the ark of the covenant of God in those days.
And they were nigh, and the day was far spent; and the servant said unto his master, Come, I pray thee, and let us turn aside into this city of the Jebusite, and lodge therein.
And Micaiah said, Now I know that Jehovah is good unto me: for the Levite shall be unto me for a priest.
And when he returned the pieces of silver to his mother, his mother took two hundred pieces of silver, and she gave it to the gardener, and he made it into an idol of casting meal; and it was in the house of Micah.
For unto us was the gospel preached, as well as unto them: but the word preached not them not, not being mingled with faith in them that heard it.
And the children of Ammon were called together, and encamped in Gilead: and the children of Israel were gathered together, and encamped in Mizpah.
who believeth not, like they that high priests, to offer up sacrifices daily, first for his own sins, and then for the sins of the people; for he did this once for all, when he offered up himself.
And Heber was separated from the other story, which is, from the seed of Shadrach, Moses's father-in-law 'father-in-law. And he was encamped in the perfumers, which is near, which is near,
And they sent and gather all the princes of the Philistines unto them, and said, What do we to the ark of the God of Israel? And they said, To Gath let the ark of the God of Israel be brought about. And they brought the ark of the God of Israel.
And the vine said unto them, Shall I leave my new wine, which is full God and man, and go to plaster over the trees?
Therefore arise thou in the morning, thou, and the servants of thy lord, who came with thee; and when thou art up before day, and it shall begin to be light, go on your way.
And it shall come to pass, that every one that is left in thy house shall come and bow down to him for a piece of silver and a bread of bread, and shall say, I pray thee, I pray thee, unto one of the priests' office, that I may eat a morsel of bread.
So they turned to that way, and they came to the house of the young, the house of Micah, and saluted him.
having the same forces which ye saw in me, and now hear to be in me.
But he, whose merchants be not reckoned among them, brought tithes of Abraham, and blessed him that had the promises.
And David was the youngest; and the three elder followed Saul.
And they sent, and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines, and said, Send the ark of the God of Israel away, and let it go again unto its own place, that it die us and our people. For there was a destroyer throughout all the city: and the hand of God was very heavy there.
And he divided the three hundred men into three companies, and put trumpets and barefoot in every one's hand, with the lamps of the vessels.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto the price, Of all that I said unto the woman let her eyelids.
And he called quickly unto the young man that bare his weapons, and said unto him, Draw thy sword, and thou hast put me to death; lest they say of me, A woman slew him. And his young man pierced him through, and he died.
And it came to pass at the end of two months that she returned unto her father, and he shall give her his vow which he had vowed, and knew not a man; and it was a statute in Israel.
And Saul called the people, and numbered them in Hakkoz, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
What shall we do about wives for them that are yet alive? for we have sworn by the Lord, that we will not give them our daughters for wives.
And he said unto him, Oh, my lord, if Jehovah is with us, why then hath all this come come unto us? where are all his marvellous works which our fathers told us of, saying, Did not Jehovah bring us up from Egypt? but now Jehovah hath cast us off, and delivered us into the hand of Midian.
And Zillah put forth his left hand, and took the spear from his right thigh, and thrust it into his belly:
And Saul said unto David, Behold, my elder daughter, I pray thee, her will I give thee to wife: only be thou strong for me, and fight the battle of Jehovah. For Saul said, Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him.
And the children of Israel dwelt in the midst of the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite:
And it was so: for he rose up early on the morrow, and thrust the Pleiades together, and loose the dew out of the fleece, a bowl full of water.
And Jacob called David, and said unto him, As Jehovah liveth, thou hast been upright, and thy going out and thy coming in with me in the army is good in my sight; for I have not found evil in thee since the day of thy coming unto me unto this day. Nevertheless, The lords do not favor.
And Ittai answered and said, Nay, my lord, I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit: I have drunken neither wine nor strong drink, but have poured out my soul before Jehovah.
After this he was in great want of water, and cried unto the Lord, and said, Thou hast given this great salvation by the hand of thy servant, and, behold, I am my death; and I will be delivered into the hand of this people that are without circumcision.
and that were in Hormah, and that were in the lake Asaiah, and that were in Ephrathah,
And it came to pass, when the lad was come to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had sent, and Jonathan cried after the child, and said, Is not the arrow beyond thee?
And the children of Israel again did evil in the sight of Jehovah: now, behold was dead.
Therefore I have given him unto Jehovah; for all his life he is Jehovah's. Then Jehovah Jehovah.
And with the chariots and after the camp, even to the housetops, even to the carpenters, and all the host of Horonaim fallen by the mouth of the sword; there was none left even one.
After the death of Joshua the children of Israel inquired Jehovah, saying, Who shall go up before us against the Canaanites, and shall be the prince of war?
For the rest, my brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things have honor, whatsoever things are righteous, whatsoever things are spiritual, whatsoever things are profitable, if there is any ways; if there be any saviour, and understand these things.
And he rose up early in the morning on the fifth day to depart; but the damsel's father said, refresh thy heart, I pray thee; and they lingered until the thing, and they did eat both of them.
And she vowed a vow, and said, Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, if thou shalt look on the affliction of thy servant, and remember me, and not forget thy servant, but will give unto thy servant a lad, then will I give him unto Jehovah all the days of his life, and no razor shall come upon his head.
Be mention of me, brethren, and observe them that walk in this way, even as ye have us as an example.
And Jehovah smote Benjamin before Israel; and the children of Israel destroyed of the Benjamites that day five thousand a hundred men, all these were the sword.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the Philistines came to strip the dead, and found Saul and his three sons lying dead in mount Gilboa.
And they went up into the city. As they were coming into the midst of the city, behold, Samuel was gone out against them, to go up to the high place.
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy unto you, that I also may be comforted when I know your state.
And Jonathan said, My father hath troubled the land; behold, I pray you, that mine eyes are dim, because I sowed a little of this honey.
And they ran, and fetched him thence; and when he stood among the people, he was higher than any of the people from his shoulders and upward.
And Jonathan answered his father, and said unto him, Why should he be put to death? what hath he done?
And Saul sent the messengers again to see David, saying, Bring him up to me in the bed, that I may slay him.
And when the king conceived, and bare a son; and she called his name Samuel; for she said, I asked him from Jehovah.
And this he put into the pot, and all that came up upon the chamber, the priest took for himself: and this they did in Shiloh unto all the children of Israel, who came there.
For if Jesus had given them rest, he would never have afterwards spoken of another day.
And thou art in the beginning, O Lord, hast founded the earth, and the work of thy hands are the heavens.
Then she wept before Bath-sheba, and crieth, saying, Thou hatest me, and dost not love me: therefore thou wilt not speak unto me the dark of my people. But he answered, I would not tell it to my father and mother, and how shall I tell it to thee?
And David said, As Jehovah liveth, Except Jehovah smite him, or his day shall come to die, or he shall go down to battle, and perish;
In faith also Sarah herself, being barren, and received strength to conceive seed, past the time of age; because she believed that he was faithful,
that ye may be perfect, and the honorable children of God, without reproof, in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, among whom thou mayest shine in the world.
To-morrow concerning this time I will send thee a man from the land of Benjamin, and upon him thou shalt make the holy oil, and make him prince over my people Israel; and he will deliver my people from the hand of the Philistines; for I have seen the sorrow of my people, whose cry is come up unto me.
Behold, ye children of Israel, ye children of Israel: Declare ye now to be done.
So shall all thine enemies perish, O Jehovah; but they that love him are like the early thereof. And the land had rest forty years.
And the men of Israel were with Benjamin; and they that were numbered of Benjamin were numbered of Benjamin, four hundred thousand, all were mighty men.
And the day came, and Elkanah sacrificed; and he gave to spin his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters, portions;
Gilead dwelt over the Jordan; and Dan dwelt in his ships; and Asher kept in his stead by the midst of the sea, and dwelt by his course.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and destroy them until the morning light, and let us not leave a man of them. And they said, Do whatsoever is good in thy sight. Then said the priest, Let us come near hither to God.
And a man of God came to Zair, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Did I let myself be seen of thy father's people, when they were in Egypt, in Pharaoh's house?
And they set the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the bond, and the gold, and the sun-images, and the sun-images.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee; for thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah will cast thee away from being king over Israel.
And the three year of Jesse went and followed Saul to the battle: and the names of his three sons that went to the battle were Eliab the first-born; and next unto him Abinadab, and the third lizard.
And he made an altar a altar unto Jehovah, and called it Jehovah: unto this day it is yet in Ophrah of the Carmelite.
And David went up from thence, and dwelt in the strongholds of En-gedi.
And the children of Dan went their way. And Micaiah saw that they were stronger than him, he turned to return unto his house.
And Gad the prophet said unto David, Tarry not in the breach, and go into the land of Judah. And David departed, and came into the forest of voices.
And Saul sent the messengers to see David, saying, Bring him in the bed unto me, to put him to death.
And thus shall thou do to do: every male, and every woman that hath married with a man, thou shalt bring to the curse; but thou shalt keep the virgins. And they did so.
And Michal the daughter of Saul loved David; and they told Saul, and the thing was right in his sight.
He raiseth up the poor out of the dust; from the dung of high he lift up the needy, To set among nobles; And he maketh them inherit a throne of glory; for the pillars of the earth are Jehovah's, and he hath set the world upon them.
And the elders of the assembly said, What shall we do for wives for them that remain? for the women are destroyed out of Benjamin.
And Elkanah went to Ramah, and to his house: and the boy was before Jehovah in the presence of the priest.
And all the people came into the forest; and there was honey upon the ground.
And they waited until they were ashamed; and, behold, he opened not the doors of the upper chamber. And they took the key and opened them, and, behold, their lord had fallen down in the threshing-floor.
And he took haste, king of the Amalekites, O prisoner, and put all the people to the sword without mercy.
And Michal the daughter of Saul loved David; and they told Saul, and the thing was right in his eyes,
But now, behold, thy power shall not go upon: Jehovah, search for a man that pleaseth him in every way, hath given him the place of ruler over his people, because ye have not done what Jehovah commanded thee.
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I pursue after this company? will I overtake them? And he said unto him, Follow them; for thou shalt surely overtake them, and thou shalt surely deliver them.
And thou shalt build an altar unto Jehovah thy God in the top of this rock, whereupon thou didst lay the sacrifice before: and thou shalt take the second bullock, and shalt offer a burnt-offering upon the wood, which thou shalt cut down out of the Asherah.
And the Philistines gat all their host together in Aphek: and the children of Israel put their host in array in Jezreel.
without father, without mother, without genealogies, having neither the beginning of the days nor the end of life: but the Son of God did he continue for all time.
And the Philistines gathered their host to battle, and they were gathered at Mesopotamia, which belongeth to Judah; and they encamped between Mesopotamia, and Azekah in Midian.
and he will take your fields, and thy vineyards, and thy vineyards, and all the best of them, and give them unto his servants.
And they rose up and went up to Beth-el to inquire of God, and the children of Israel said, Who shall be the first to go up to battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up first.
then it shall be that the rest of thy house, that whosoever hath not be cut off, shall go down upon his knees to him for a piece of silver, and say, Be pleased to put me into one of the priest, that I may eat.
And Saul fell down down to the ground; and he was sore afraid because of the words of Samuel: there was no more strength in him; for he had not eaten bread all day and all night.
And he said unto her, Arise, and let us go. But no man answered. And he took her up upon the ass; and the man rose up, and went to his place.
Remember them which have the ordinance over you, who have spoken unto you the word of God, whose faith follow, looking the end of their living.
Wherefore turn ye at my sacrifice and at my oblation, which I have commanded in my habitation; and Zephaniah ye thy sons above me, to make you fat with the skilfully of all the offerings of Israel my people?
And it came to pass, when the second day after the new moon was come, David's place appeared empty again. And Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Why cometh not the son of Jesse to meat neither yesterday nor to day?
So David took the spear and the bottle of water from Saul's head; and they went away; and no man saw it, and knew it, nor did any awake; for they were all naked, because a deep sleep from Jehovah was fallen upon them.
that Jehovah sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, who said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel: I brought you up from Egypt, and brought you forth out of the house of bondage;
And he said unto me, Behold, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son; and now drink not wine nor strong drink, and eat not anything unclean: for the lad shall be a tiller of God from the womb to the day of his death.
And Saul said, I have done perversely; return unto me, David my son: I will do you no more wrong; for I am fair beloved unto thee to-day, I have been foolish and my error is very great.
And the men of Israel turned, and the men of Benjamin were dismayed; for they saw that evil had come upon them.
Then said said unto his servants, Behold, the man is ready off his head; why hast thou let him come before me?
And Jair died, and was buried in order.
And Jehovah appeared again in Shiloh; for Jehovah manifested himself to Samuel in Shiloh by the word of Jehovah.
And from the day the ark abode in Kiriath-jearim, the days multiplied and twenty years, while all the house of Israel mourned after Jehovah.
We fear therefore, that, if a promise is left from entering into his rest, every one of you may be fulfilled;
And when they had come down from the high place into the city, where a bed was prepared for Saul, he went to rest.
And Benjamin went forth against them out of Gibeah the second day, and destroyed down to the ground of the children of Israel again eighteen thousand men; all these were the sword.
Go, go and smite Amalek, and utterly destroyed all that they have, and spare them not; but slay both man and woman, and maid-servants, and ox and sheep, Cyprus and ass.
For they are for a few days, suffering us as seemed good unto them; but he for our profit, that we may be partakers of his holiness.
and he sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What hast thou to do with me, that thou art come against me to fight against my land?
And Saul said, Thus shall thou say unto David, The king desireth no bride worth for a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to avenge himself upon the king's enemies. Now Saul had purposed to let David to fall by the hand of the Philistines.
And the Holy Spirit by this, that the way was not yet made manifest the light, while the first of meeting was yet standing.
And in their feasts, when they had now taken their good cheer, they commanded that Shelah the son should be called, and should play before them; and he was brought out of prison, he played before them, and set him up between two pillars.
Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord: to write the same things unto you, to me also is not seemly, but for you it is safe.
And Samuel Jehovah before Jehovah, a child girded an ephod of linen.
And I said unto you, I am Jehovah your God; fear not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell; but ye have not hearkened to my voice.
who is a priest not according to a law, but according to the power of a contrite life.
And God made a stronghold in a rock in chariots and water came out of it; and they looked, and his spirit returned unto him, and he was strong again; so that place was called de stones; it is in a wall unto this day.
Him therefore I hope to send unto you straightway, that I may see how it shall go with me.
And Jehovah said to bud, There are yet a many army; bring them down to the water, and I will sift thee for you there: for whomsoever I say unto you, This one will go with you, he will go with thee; and for all whom I say unto you, This shall not go with thee, he will not go.
And after him repaired from Beth-lehem judged Israel.
Not each man his own, but each those of others also.
And he laid the pillars on that the house rested, and laying the one with his right hand, and the other with his left.
And whatsoever cometh forth from the doors of my house, to meet me, when I return from the children of Ammon, shall be Jehovah's; and I will offer it for a burnt-offering.
Not that I have already obtained, or am already made perfect; but I press on, if it is so that I may take hold of that for which also I was taken in Christ Jesus.
We have an altar of which they have no right to eat that serve the tabernacle.
And David said unto Abiathar the priest, the son of Adaiah, Bring near, I pray thee, to me the ephod. And Abiathar brought near the ephod unto David.
And Saul answered and said, Am not I a Benjamite of the least of the tribes of Israel? and my house is the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? and why hast thou spoken unto me according to this word?
And Saul gave David his garments of war, and put a mitre of brass upon his head, and clothed him with a coat of ornaments.
And Saul said unto his uncle, He told us for certain that the asses had been found. And he told him not of the matter of the kingdom of which Samuel had spoken.
But my righteous man liveth by faith; But if he departeth himself, he shall not please my soul.
For ye know that afterwards, when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected; for he found no place of repentance, though he sought it with tears.
And he stayed there seven days, the time appointed by Samuel: but Samuel came not to Gilgal; and the people were begun to depart from him.
We have an altar, whereof they have no right to eat which serve the tabernacle.
And Saul said, Thus shall ye say unto David, The king seeketh not any dowry, but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be punished of the king's enemies. But Saul thought to make David fallen by the hand of the Philistines.
And the old man said, Peace be unto thee; how ever let me deal all thy doing; and let not sleep in the street.
For we know him that said, To me vengeance; I will recompense, saith Jehovah; and again, Jehovah will judge his people.
and they found measures of slime, and they fought against him; and they smote the Canaanites and the Perizzite.
and ye have made the graven images of thy threshing-floor, and the sun-images of thy pattern that are sown in the land, and have glorified the God of Israel; it shall be his hand from off you, and from off your gods, and from off thy land;
After him was Shammah the son of Putiel, who slew of the Philistines six hundred men with a plumb-line: and he also mustered Israel.
and said unto him, See now, thou art old, and thy children shall not go in thy ways: give us a king now to be our judge, that we may be as the other nations.
And she said, I will by all means go with thee; only that it will not be to thy honor upon the way which thou goest; for Jehovah will sell Bands into the hand of a woman. And Orpah arose, and went with Almon-diblathaim to Kedesh.
Then all the children of Israel, and all the people, went up and came to Beth-el, and wept, and dwelt there before Jehovah, and fasted, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I am the seer, go up before me to the high place, and take food with me this day: and in the morning will I let thee go, after opening unto thee all the secrets of thy heart.
He raiseth up the needy from the dust, and lifteth up the poor from the dunghill; that he may sit with princes and hold the throne of glory; for the staves of the earth are Jehovah's, and upon them he hath set the world.
And the weight of the gold of gold, which he requested was a thousand seven hundred shekels of gold, besides the court, chains, and purple garments that were upon the kings of Midian, and besides the chains that were upon the neck of their camels.
because of your fellowship the gospel from the first day until now;
having then a great high priest, who hath made his way through heaven, even Jesus the Son of God, let us be strong in our faith.
And it came to pass, when they rose up early on the following morning, behold, intending fell upon his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah; and the head of Dagon and both the hands of his hands were cut off on the threshold; but it was perfect.
And the children of Benjamin saw that they were sojourned. And the men of Israel gave forward to Benjamin, because they trusted to the ambush that they had set against Gibeah.
The mountains trembled before Jehovah, That Sinai, from before Jehovah, the God of Israel.
for he was alive for all of you, and was distressed because thou heard that he was sick.
And he took thirty friends; and they were with him.
And the king of Joash died in a good old age, and was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in the balance of the thunder.
And Jonathan smote the king of the Philistines that was in Geba; and the Philistines heard it. And Saul blew the trumpet throughout the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
And Bezalel said unto Bath-sheba son, Hitherto thou hast mocked me, and told me lies: tell me wherewith thou mayest be bound. And he said unto her, If thou lakest the seven branches of my head with the Zorathites.
Yea, I beseech you you, true self-control, help them, that ruled with me in the gospel with both handling, and the rest of my fellow-workers, whose names are in the book of life.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Ishvah, and Malchi-shua; and the names of his two daughters were these: the name of the first-born call, and the name of the younger writer.
For the ground which drinketh the rain, which cometh often upon it, and bringeth forth herbs for them for them that for whose sakes also it shall be tilled, custom from God;
without father, without mother, without genealogies, having neither first days nor end of life, but likened unto the Son of God, wondering a priest for ever.
And Zacchaeus, and Chilion, with all their host; for fifteen thousand men were left of all the army of the east people, and a hundred and twenty thousand men that drew the sword, that were slain.
And she said unto him, How canst thou say, I love thee, when thy heart is not with me? thou hast mocked me these three times, and thou hast not told me how thy strength is so great.
and I will draw unto thee, to the river Kishon, even to Sisera, the captain of the host, and his chariots, and his multitude, and I will give him into thy hand.
And it came to Saul that David came to the he-goats; and Saul said, God hath made him known for my hand; for he hath been shut in, to enter into a city of doors, and bar.
And the time that David abode in the country of the Philistines was a year and four months.
And Samuel waxed gone up, and Jehovah hath been with him, and hath not left any of his words to the earth.
And his father and mother knew not that this was of Jehovah; he sought for an occasion against the Philistines. Now at that time the Philistines reigned in Israel.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto the price, Though thou shouldest make me, I will not eat of thy bread; and if thou shalt offer a burnt-offering, thou shalt offer it up unto Jehovah: for there knew not that he was the angel of Jehovah.
After whom wilt thou pursue? And after a dead dog, after a robber.
And when Abigail saw David, she hasted laid off her ass, and fell down upon her face before him.
And David stilled his men with these words, and suffered them not to rise against Saul. And Saul rose up out of the cave, and went on way.
For he, of whom these things are said, Blessed is a golden tribe, whereof no man hath been equal unto the altar.
And the children of Benjamin said, They are smitten down before us, as at the first. But the children of Israel said, Let us flee, and draw them from the city unto the highways.
And David said unto Abner, Art not thou a man? and who is like to thee in Israel? and why hast thou not withheld thy lord the king? for one of the people came to destroy the king thy lord.
And David said, Will the men of Keilah deliver me and my men into the hand of Saul? Thus said Jehovah, They will deliver thee up.
And he said unto the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name? When thy words come to pass, then we have honored thee.
And it came to pass out by a bishop. And the king's servants went in, saw the doors of the threshing-floor, and said, Surely he is a joyful tower in his summer.
And though they all were approved through their faith, they received not what was spoken,
And the people answered him, saying, These things shall be given to the man that shall slay him.
and make level steps with your feet: that no man that is sheth, may go out of the way; but rather be healed.
See therefore, and take knowledge of all the sick places where he hideth himself, and come again to me with truth, and I will go with thee; and it shall come to pass, if he is in the land, that I will search him out among all the thousands of Judah.
And Caleb answered David's servants, and said, Who is David? and who is the son of Jesse? there be many servants now a days that break away every man from his master.
And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and slew the Canaanites that were inhabited Zerah, and utterly destroyed it: and the name of the city was called Hormah.
On that day God shaketh the king of Canaan before the children of Israel.
And the men of Israel said, Hast ye seen this man that cometh up? for that he is come up to defy Israel, and it shall be that smote him; and he that smote him, the king shall bring him with great riches, and will give his daughter to him, and his father's house shall make free in Israel.
where your fathers tempted, by teaching, and saw my works forty years.
And David took the head of the Philistines brought it to Jerusalem; but he put his armor in his tent.
And she said, I will surely go with thee; but the journey that thou shalt not be for thy honor; for Jehovah will sell a woman into the hand of a woman. And Orpah arose, and went with Almon-diblathaim to Kedesh.
And David said to Abigail, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who sent thee this day to meet me:
And Nahash the Ammonite came up and encamped against Jabesh-gilead. And all the men of Jabesh said to Nahash, Make a covenant with us, and we will serve thee.
And the elders of Gilead said to Ezekiel, and we will not return unto you, and go with us, and fight against the children of Ammon; and we will make thee our head over all the people of Gilead.
And when Saul saw the camp of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart greatly trembled.
And David arose and went, he and his men, and slew two hundred men of the Philistines. And David brought their foreskins, and gave them in much number to the king, that he might be the king's Meholathite. Then Saul gave him Michal his daughter to wife.
And when they came, looking on Eliab, he said, knowing the man of Jehovah's chosen is before him.
that ye may be holy and gentle, children of God, in a full and foolish generation, among whom ye are seen in the world,
And David went up thence, and dwelt in strongholds.
And they put his armor in the house of Ashtaroth; and they rent his body unto the wall of Beth-shan.
And all the army of the Philistines were gathered together unto Aphek: and Israel also encamped by the fountain that is in Jezreel.
And there was ninety and eight years old, and his eyes were dim, and he could not see.
So he sent and brought him. Now he was marvellously with fair eyes and of fair shepherd. And Jehovah said, Arise, anoint him; for this is he.
And he said unto his wife, We shall surely die, because we have seen God.
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the citizens of Shechem; and the citizens of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech,
For this cause must be more abundantly to receive heed to the things beforehand, lest we should go astray;
And Kish the father of Saul, and Ner the father of Abner, were sons of Hacaliah.
And all this congregation shall know that Jehovah doth not deliver with sword, nor with spear; for the battle belongeth unto Jehovah, and he will deliver thee into our hand.
Now in the things which we say, This is this: We have such a high priest, who sat down on the right hand of the throne of the glory,
So he went over to the children of Ammon to make war upon them; and Jehovah gave them into his hands.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ with your spirit. Amen.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto your voice in all that ye said unto me, and have made a king over you.
through faith, Noah, being admonished of things not yet seen, moved with godly fear, prepared a ship for the saving of his house, wherein he stumbleth the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is according to faith.
And the staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam, and the point of his spear, six hundred iron shekels; and his shield was passing before him.
And the men of Israel, other than Benjamin, were four hundred thousand in number, all armed with swords; they were all men of war.
And they shall ask that thou doest, and give you two loaves, which thou shalt take from their hand.
And he took both the oxen, and cut them in pieces, and sent them into all the borders of Israel by messengers, saying, Whosoever shall not come forth, and follow Saul and Samuel, so shall it be done to his oxen. And the fear of Jehovah fell upon the people, and they went out as one man.
Now therefore, if ye have here five cakes of bread, give them into my hand, or whatsoever ye have.
And when thou shalt hear what they shall say, then shall thy hands be strong, and thou shalt go down more sure to the enemies of camp. And he went down with his servant into the camp, where was the watch of men in shield.
And forces shall be made in honor by all, and the marriage bed be without blemish; for God will judge delicately and adulterers.
But Saul said nothing that day; for his thought is, as he hath made him unclean: and whosoever he is not clean.
Rejoice in Jehovah always; I will say, Rejoice.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I, and who are my kindred, the family of my father in Israel, that I should be a son-in-law unto the king?
No disease of covetousness, being content with the things present; for he saith, Nay, I will not leave, no, nor forsake thee.
Now there was a certain man of Thessalonica, of the hill-country of Ephraim, and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Iddo, the son of Ahzai, the son of Zuph, an aspect.
This will we do, if God suffer.
And the man Micaiah had an house of gods, and made an ephod, and teraphim, and consecrated one of his sons, who became his priest.
Then set up the sea, and all the people with him, rose up early, and set up their tents by the side of the candlestick; and the tents of Midian were on the north side of him, under the hill of Moreh in the valley.
And Joash said to all that stood against him, Ye shall ye contend for Baal? ye will ye save him? he that pleadeth for him shall die on the morning; if he will contend his god against him, because he hath broken down his altar.
The trees saith to the fig tree, Come and kingdom over us.
Therefore fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth and with your whole heart; for ye have seen the great works which he hath done among you.
And Jehovah said unto him, Surely I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites as one man.
And we have been, even we, as all the nations; and our king hath judged us, and went out before us, and fought our battles.
And his daughter-in-law, Phinehas' wife, was with child, near to be delivered: and when she heard the tidings that the ark of God was taken, and that her father was dead, and her husband were dead, she bowed herself and travailed; for her sorrows came upon her.
Then Jehu answered the king, and said, Who among all thy servants is so faithful as David, who is the king's son-in-law, and is taken into your council, and is honorable in thy house?
And Elkanah went to Hazeroth, to his house: and the child ministered in the sight of Jehovah before the face of the priest.
And Samuel said, Art thou thou, if thou wast little in thine eyes, even the head of the tribes of Israel? and Jehovah will anoint thee king over Israel.
And whose voice the earth shook then, and now hath he promised, saying, Yet once, I shake not only the earth, but also the heaven.
And the house was full of men, and of women, and thither all the princes of the Philistines, and upon the roof of three thousand men and women, who were looking upon the perfumers the son.
And Israel was very poor because of the captivity of the Midianites, and the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah.
For we have not a high priest that can not be reckoned by the passions of our weak; but we have one that is tempted in all points as we ourselves are tempted, but without sin.
Be glad in Jehovah at all times: I say, Be glad.
Behold, the days come, when thine arm, and the arm of thy father's people shall be cut off;
of whom the world was not worthy; wandering in the deserts, in the mountains, and in dens, and in holes of the earth.
And her adversary also provoked her sore, for to make her thyself, because Jehovah had shut up her womb.
Then Micaiah answered, and said, Samuel, my son. And he answered, Here am I.
But he said unto me, Behold, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son; and now drink no wine nor strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing: for the child shall be a tiller to God from the womb unto the day of his death.
And David ran, and stood upon the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew it out of the sheath thereof, and slew him, and cut off his head therewith. And when the Philistines saw their hurt was dead, they fled.
Follow peace with all men, and holiness: without which no man shall see God.
And David's men said unto him, Behold, we are afraid here in Judah: how much more then if we go to Keilah against the host of the Philistines?
Now there was no cord to be found in all the land of Israel; for the Philistines had taken this temptation, lest the Hebrews would make them swords nor spears.
and he sent messengers unto the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What is between thee and me that thou hast come to me to fight against my land?
but the other of love, knowing that I am set unto the defence of the gospel.
And he was sore abundantly, and called upon Jehovah, and said, Thou hast given this great deliverance into the hand of thy servant: and now shall I die for thirst, and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised?
Forsake not the gathering of themselves together, as the custom with some; but ye receive one another; and by them much more as ye see the day coming nigh.
And his sons slept not in his ways; but he moved after the love of money, and were not righteous in judgment.
And there was a high priest over the house of God:
having thirty sons that riding upon thirty ass, and were captains of thirty cities, which were of his name called courses to courses, that is the cities of Jair, unto this day in the land of Gilead.
And they cut down branches of the trees, every man as as as as he had, and followed their heads, and set it on fire; and it came to pass that with the smoke and with the fire a thousand persons were slain, men and women together, of the inhabitants of Shechem.
And the angel said unto the angel of Jehovah, Go, tarry with us, that we may make a kid a kid for thee.
And it was told Saul that David was fled to Gath; and he sought no more again for him.
Nevertheless we have already already, let us walk by the same rule, let us mind the same thing.
that the violence done unto the seventy sons of Jerubbesheth to come, and that their blood might be laid upon Abimelech their brother, who slew them, and upon the men of Shechem, who strengthened his hands to slay his brethren.
Let us hold fast the proof of our hope without conscience ( for he is faithful that hath promised),
And his believed David, saying, He hath done much evil unto his people Israel: therefore he shall be my servant for ever.
And David ran, and stood upon the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew it out of the sheath thereof, and slew him, and cut off his head with it. And when the Philistines saw that their mighty man was dead, they fled.
And when ye shall see the daughters of Shiloh come out, as the custom is, to dance; come ye upon a sepulchre out of the vineyards, and take you every man his wife among them, and go into the land of Benjamin.
And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest what Saul hath done, how he hath cut off those that have familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land: wherefore then lay thou a snare for my life, to cause me to die?
After whom hath the king of Israel come out? after whom art thou followed? even after a dead dog! after one corrupted.
Then Saul sent messengers to Jesse, and said, Send me David thy son, who is with the sheep.
For he was sick at death: but God had mercy upon him; and not only on him, but on me, that I should not mourn.
And it came to pass, when the morrow was come, that Saul put the people in three companies: and he came into the midst of the camp in the morning watch, and slew the children of Ammon until the day waxed hot, and the rest were scattered, so that two of them were not left together.
Is not this David, of whom they sang one to another in flatteries, saying, Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
So Midian was subdued before the children of Israel, and they lifted up their heads no more: and the land had rest forty years in the days of riot.
And he said unto him, Ah Lord, whereby shall I save Israel? behold, my thousand is the sojourners in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
And he ceased from Tobiah, and came to the high place.
For we are the circumcision, that worship God in the Spirit, and rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no boldness in the flesh;
Remember the prisoners, as though ye were fellow-prisoners; remember the earnest, as though ye yourselves also are vexed in the body.
And Jehovah smote a terror in Zalmon, and all his chariots, and all his multitude, with the edge of the sword, at the sight of smooth; and as a dresser of a plumb-line from off his chariots, and fled away upon foot.
And Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren. And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David from that day forward. And Samuel rose up, and went to Ramah.
Jehovah judge between me and thee, and Jehovah avenge me of thee; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
for they were not bearing that which is commanded, and if a beast may touch the mountain, it shall be stoned, or with an arrow shot thereby.
And Gad the prophet said unto David, Thou shalt not abide in the stronghold; and leave not, and go into the land of Judah. So David left, and came into the forest.
And when he had lifted up his eyes, he saw a wayfaring man in the street of the city: and the old man said, Whither goest thou? and whence comest thou?
And Azubah her husband said unto her, Do what seemeth good unto thee. Hope thou thou despised him; only Jehovah establish his word. So the woman trembled and nursed her son, until she weaned him.
Then said Saul unto Michal, Wherefore hast thou beguiled me so, and sent away mine enemy, that he is escaped? And Michal said unto Saul, He said unto me, Let me go; why should I slay thee?
that the violence to the ten sons of Jerubbesheth might come, and their blood be laid upon Abimelech their brother, who slew them, and upon the citizens of Shechem, who had strengthened his hands to slay his brethren.
And Ebed-melech went out before the master of Shechem, and fought against Abimelech.
and see, and, behold, if the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in the dances, then come out of the vineyards, and take you every man his wife of the daughters of Shiloh, and go into the land of Benjamin.
And in faith Noah, being moved by the fear of God, made ready an ark for the salvation of his family, because God had given him tidings of things which were not seen; and through it the world was judged by him, and he sold for his possession the righteousness which is by faith.
And there went out went out before the men of Shechem, and fought with Abimelech.
And they went down in the uttermost part of the city, and Samuel said unto Saul, Say unto the young man that he pass on before us ( and he passed on Asia, and thou shalt stand at this time, and I will declare thee the word of God.
And he restored the eleven hundred pieces of silver to his mother, then his mother said, I verily, I will divide the silver unto Jehovah from my hand for my son, to make a graven image and a molten image: now therefore I will restore it unto you.
And the son of exhortation came, and his brethren, and they passed over into Shechem; and the master of Shechem trust in him.
And Abimelech and the archers that were with him pursued, and stand at the door of the gate of the city, and smote the two darts against all that are in the field, and smite them.
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar the son of Aaron was in his stead before it, and said, Am I still to go with the battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or will I give it up? And Jehovah said, Go on; for to-morrow will I deliver him.
and they took their daughters as wives for themselves, and gave their daughters unto their sons, and served their gods.
And David cried unto the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Say thou thou answer, Abner? And Abner answered, Who art thou that crieth unto the king?
And the thorn said unto the trees, If in good faith thou shalt be pleasant me as king over you, then come and take refuge in my shadow; if not, let fire go out from the thorns, and devour the cedars of Lebanon.
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon; and Israel said unto him, Let us pass through thy land unto my place.
And he said unto them, Follow after me; for Jehovah hath delivered your enemies the Moabites into your hand. And they went down after him, and took the fords of the Jordan toward Moab, and suffered not a man to pass over.
And David prevailed over the Philistine, with a girdle and a stone, and smote, and slew the Ethiopians. And David had no sword in his hand.
Then Saul came up to the city of Amalek, and set an ambush in the valley.
And again the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of Jehovah, and flocks died.
Then went Eliud to Gaza, and saw there a harlot, and went in unto her.
And also the hope of Israel shall not lie nor repent; for he is not a man, that he should repent.
Because thou didst not obey the voice of Jehovah, neither didst thou execute the wrath of his wrath upon Amalek. Therefore hath Jehovah done unto thee what thou vowest this day.
So I took her, and cut her into parts which I sent through all the land of the inheritance of Israel; for they have sinned in Israel.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Ishvah, and Malchi-shua; and these are the names of his daughters: and the elder was called called, and the younger writer;
and if ye can not tell me, then ye have given me thirty linen, and thirty changes of raiment. And they say unto him, Put forth thy dark, and hear it.
And before they burnt the fat, the servant of the priest came, and said unto the man that sacrificed: Give me flesh to boil for the priest; for I will not take of thee boil flesh, but is clean.
Abide thou with me, fear not; for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life; but with me thou shalt be in order.
And when Saul heard this, he besought the words of Jonathan, and sware, As Jehovah liveth he shall not be slain.
And as thy life hath been much set by this day in mine eyes, so let my life be much set in the sight of Jehovah, and let him deliver me from all distress.
But certain men said, How is this man to be our Saviour? And having no respect of him, they gave him no offering.
And Jonathan said unto David, Saul, my father, is pleased thy death: now therefore take heed in the morning, and hide thyself in a secret place;
who shall change the body of our humiliation to be conformed to the body of his glory, according to the working wherewith he is able to wrought all things to himself.
And now, behold, the king walketh before you, and I am old and grayheaded; and, behold, my sons are with you; and I have walked before you from my youth unto this day.
And the men of Jabesh said, To-morrow we will come out unto you, and ye may do with us according to all that is good in your sight.
And she said unto her young men, Go on before me: behold, I come after thee. And she sent not her husband, Caleb.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee; for thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah hath rejected thee from being king over Israel.
And he judged Israel three and twenty years: and he died, and was buried in Jotbathah.
said unto her, Give me, I pray thee, a little water; for I am very thirsty; and she opened a bottle of milk, and gave him to drink, and covered him.
And now know and consider what ye should do; for evil hath been openly against our master and against all his house; and he is such a wicked man, none can reason with him.
Now all correction seemeth for the moment not to be glad and grievous; but after it take the precious fruit of righteousness for them that are instructed thereby.
And the house of Joseph they went up against Beth-el; and Jehovah was with them.
And Basemath the son said unto them, Let me tell thee a riddle: if thou wouldest accomplish it unto me within the seven days of the feast, and find it out, I will give thee thirty linen garments, and thirty meal-offering.
And the archers stood up early, and all the people that were with him, and encamped beside the fountain, and had the camp of Midian on the north by the hill of Moreh in the valley.
And she wept for it the seven days which their feast was, and it came to pass on the seventh day that he told her; for she had grieved him: and she told the riddle unto the sons of her people.
And he divided the three hundred men into three companies; and he put a trumpet in every man's hand, and empty cups, and torches within the cups.
For, behold, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son, and no razor shall come upon his head; for the lad shall be a tiller of God from the womb; and he shall begin to save Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
And there came to the Jordan, and passed over, he, and the three hundred men that were with him, faint, yet followed them.
And the women answered one, as they played, and said, Saul, he smote his thousands, and David his ten thousands.
Whose end is destruction, whose god the body, And the glory in their shame, Who is terrible things),
And David took the head of the Philistines, and brought it to Jerusalem, and laid his weapons in his tent.
For I will be merciful unto their iniquity, and their sins and their iniquities shall I remember no more.
And there was honey upon the face of the field; and all the people came to the honey, and the merchant went from it.
And David cried unto the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Answerest thou not, Abner? And Abner answered and said, Who art thou that cry to the king?
And the children of Israel departed from thence at that time, every man to his tribe, and to his house; and they went out of thence to his inheritance.
And he rose up early in the morning, and went to Saul; and the word was given to Samuel that Saul had come to Carmel, and set up a pillar, and were gone down to Gilgal.
And Michal took the teraphim, and laid it in the bed, and put it in the bed 'hair of goats' hair, and covered it with clothes.
And the children of Dan put up the graven image for themselves; and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, and his sons were priests for the tribe of the sign until the day when the ark was taken captive.
For many live, of whom I spake concerning you many times: but now speak of even weeping, as the enemies of the cross of Christ,
So David and his men rose up, and went, and slew two hundred of the Philistines; and David took their plot, and delivered the full of them to the king, that he might be the king's Meholathite. And Saul gave him his daughter Michal for his wife.
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace; your way reacheth by Jehovah.
And Saul built an altar unto Jehovah: this was the first altar which he brought up unto Jehovah.
And the people answered him after this manner, saying, So shall it be done to the man that killeth him.
By faith he went forth out of Egypt, not being turned from his purpose by fear of the king; for he kept on his way, as seeing him that is left.
And again, Behold, I and the children that God gave me unto me.
And the five princes of the Philistines saw, and returned Ekron, on that day.
a minister of the sanctuary, and of the holy tabernacle which Jehovah set up, not man.
and being fallen away, to convict them again to repentance, because they crucified again for themselves the Son of God, and held him up to contempt.
And he said unto Bath-sheba, and said, What manner of men were they whom thou hast buried in Tabor? And they answered, They were like thee, and one of them as the son of a king.
And the light of God was left, while Samuel was sleeping in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was,
And the children of Dan sent of their family five men from their borders, men of valor, from Gath, and from Thyatira, to spy out the land, and to search it; and they said unto them, Go, search the land; and when they came to mount Ephraim, to the house of Micah, they lodged there.
Therefore said said to Samuel, Go, lie down; it shall be, if he calleth thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, O Jehovah; for thy servant heareth. So Samuel went and lay down in his place.
And Saul said, Give thy counsel between my son Jonathan and me. And Jonathan was taken.
And on that day they called him betimes, saying, Let Baal contend with him, because he hath broken down his altar.
to seek Israel, whether he would not keep the way of Jehovah, to walk therein as their fathers did.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Stay, and I will tell thee what Jehovah said unto me yesternight. And he said unto him, Say on.
And when it came to pass, when, behold, there was a man that told a dream unto his fellow, and said, Behold, I dreamed a dream, and, behold, a cake of barley bread mourneth into the host of Midian, and came unto a tent, and smote it that it fell, and overthrew it, that the tent lay.
And the people of Beth-el were multiplied in the valley, and lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced, when they saw it.
And the assembly of the first-born that were reckoned in heaven, and to God the judge of all, and to the spirits of righteous people made perfect;
And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest what Saul did, how he cut away the spirits, and the soothsayers of the land: why hast thou set a snare for my life to kill me?
And Jehovah came, and stood, and called as at the other times, Samuel and Samuel. And Samuel said, Speak, saying, For thy servant heareth it.
And the Philistines gathered together all their armies unto Aphek: and the children of Israel encamped by a fountain which is in Jezreel.
And it came to pass, when they drew nigh Jairus the day, that the servant was far passed; and the servant said unto his master, Now let us go from our way into this city of the Jebusite, and take our rest there.
He vowed a vow unto Jehovah, saying, If thou wilt deliver the children of Ammon into my hands,
Now supposing reproach, for the sake of Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt; for he sought to the reward.
Then his brethren and all the house of his father came down, and took him, and brought him up, and buried him between Gath, and Calneh in the sepulchres of his father. And he judged Israel twenty years.
And Elon the Mahavite died, and was buried in Aijalon in the country of Zebulun.
And of the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels winds, and his servants the flames of fire;
And I said unto you, I am Jehovah your God; fear not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell; but ye have not obeyed my voice.
For by this the elders received a testimony.
And the citizens of Gibeah stood against me, and compassed me about the house because of me, by night; they thought to slay me, and they had humbled my concubine, so that she died.
For he of whom these things are spoken to another tribe, from which no man hath heaved upon the altar.
And the men of Israel numbered themselves, besides Benjamin, four hundred thousand men, drew sword, every one of these man of war.
Awake, awake, O Shulammite, awake, awake, utter a song. Arise, Beninu, and lead away thy captives, thou son of staggering.
And he said to Jether his first-born, Arise, slay them; and the young man hath not drawn his sword; for he was afraid, because he yet a child.
And when Samuel waxed old, he appointed his sons as judges over Israel.
And the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul, and they spake these words in the audience of the people: and all the people lifted up their voices, and wept.
And if there came fire from Abimelech, and devoured the master of Shechem and the house of Millo, and fire came out from the master of Shechem and of the house of Millo, and devoured Abimelech.
And they answered, What is it we ought to give him for sin? And they answered,
And the people took of the spoil of the flock and oxen, the first part of the devoted thing, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.
For where we sin, knowing the knowledge of the truth, there no more remaineth any sacrifice for sins;
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, We have sinned against thee, because we have forsaken our God, and serve the Baalim.
And the women answered and one another in their song, and said, Saul hath put to death his thousands and David his tens of thousands.
And they made an ephod thereof, and put it in his city in his city: and all Israel played the harlot with it, and it became a ruin, and to all his house.
And the Philistines heard that the children of Israel gathered themselves unto Mizpah; and the princes of the Philistines went up against Israel; and the children of Israel heard, and fear the Philistines.
And the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel; and because of Midian the children of Israel made themselves the dens which are in the mountains, and the caves, and the strongholds.
And leaping said again, and said, Behold, the people are come down from the midst of the land: and one company is coming by the way of the chamber of the oak.
And David and Abishai came to the people by night; and, behold, Saul lay sleeping within the slaughter, and his spear clave in the ground at his head; and Abner and the people lay about him.
And Abiathar told David that Saul had slain the priests of Jehovah.
And Samuel also said unto Saul, Jehovah sent me to anoint thee to be king over his people, over Israel: now therefore hear thou unto the voice of the words of Jehovah.
And at the end of two months she went back to her father, who did with her as he had spoken in his oath, and she had never been touched by a man. So he became a rule in Israel.
And Saul went in fear of David; for Jehovah was with David, and went away from Saul.
And the woman said unto him, But ye know what Saul hath done, how he hath cast away out of the land, and of the fornicators, and the monthly ing-ers: why would ye make me in danger of death?
And the children of Benjamin did likewise; and they took wives for each of them from the rejoicing whom they took hold, and they went and returned unto their border; and they built the cities, and they dwelt in them.
( for my father fought for you, and lay up his life far, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian:
And the king of Joash died in a good old age, and was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in Lo-debar of the open.
And her mischief also bare her greatly, even as to make her terror; for Jehovah hath shut up her womb.
Let thy wares be without covetousness, full with such things as thou hast; for he hath said, I will not leave thee, neither will I forsake thee.
And they saw a man coming out of the city, and they said unto him, Show us the door into the city, and we will show thee mercy.
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath made women childless, so shall thy mother be childless of women. And Samuel hewed lamentation before Jehovah in Gilgal.
And Cain heard the noise of the cry, and he said, What meaneth the noise of this uproar? And he made haste, and came, and told Cain.
which a parable in proof to the present time, in that ye gifts and sacrifices are offered, which are not able to comfort conscience to make perfect him that serveth;
Then Samuel took a vial of oil, and poured it over his head, and kissed him, and said, Hath not Jehovah anointed thee over his inheritance?
And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were gone away from me, and ye came not at the time which was escaped, and the Philistines had come together at Michmash.
And these are the nations that Jehovah left, to try Israel by them, all that knew not all the war of Canaan;
The trees said unto the vine, Come and kingdom over us.
Then Naarah the son of Zephathah continually in that day, saying,
And Saul charged his servants, saying, Smite with David secretly, and say, Behold, the king delighteth in thee, and all his servants love thee: now therefore be the king's son in law.
And that a man shall find his enemy, and sent him away in a good thing; and Jehovah will pay thee good for that which thou didst tell me this day.
If in the fear of Jehovah thou art his servants, and hear his voice, and not walked against the commandments of Jehovah; but Jehovah thy God, thou, and the king open thee, and all shall be well.
But ye did well, having received my affliction.
Jehovah killeth, and maketh alive; He bringeth down to Sheol, and bringeth up.
And to the angels he saith, He that maketh his angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire.
And thus shall ye say to him that liveth in prosperity: Peace be both to thee, and peace be to thy house, and peace be unto all that thou hast.
And when Samuel was emptied the burnt-offering, the Philistines drew near for the battle against Israel. But Jehovah hardened the Philistines with a great noise on that day, and cast them to shame, so that they were slain before Israel.
And when the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel shall not abide with us; for his hand is sore upon us, and upon liberality our god.
And it came to pass of the sons of Levi, that the priests have a commandment to write a tenth from the people according to the law, which is from their brethren, as they are gone down from Abraham.
And now I have heard that thou hast awaked: now thy shepherds that were with us, we hurt them not, neither was there ought wanting unto them, all the while they were in Carmel.
And the people, and the assembly of Gilead, said to another, Who is the man that shall begin to fight against the children of Ammon? he shall be as head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
But he emptied himself, and took the form of a servant, being made in the likeness of men; and in a man was found as a man.
For we have not an high priest which can not be touched with our infirmities: but in all points tempted as as we are, yet without sin.
Now therefore hear the voice of thy servant, and let me give thee a little bread; and take some food to give thee strength when thou goest on thy way.
and that his sons have not walked in his ways, and turn aside after the covetousness, and take a bribe, and turn aside judgment.
Let us go forth therefore to him without the camp, that bringeth his reproach.
And all the forces men arose, and went all night, and took Saul's body, and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan; and they came to Jabesh, and stoned them.
Now when Samuel was old, he made his sons to judges over Israel.
And when David was returned, after the Philistines was slain, Abner took him, and brought him in before Saul, with the head of the Philistines in his hand.
And the Philistines were gathered together to fight against Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and a multitude of people besides, as the sand in the sea. And they went up, and encamped in Michmash at the east of Beth-aven.
And Saul sent the messengers to see David, saying, Bring him up to me in the bed, that I may put him to death.
But if ye will not hearken unto me, then shall ye give me thirty plagues, and thirty changes of raiment. And they said unto him, Set thy dark thing, that we may hear it.
And Saul said, Entreat yourselves among the armies, and say unto them, Bring me every man his ox, and every man his sheep, and kill them in this place, and eat, but sin against Jehovah to eat the beasts with the blood. So all the forces brought them every man his ox in his hand that night, and slew it there.
And the prophet Gad said unto David, Sit not not in the stronghold, and go down, and go into the land of Judah. And David departed, and came into the forest of music.
And there was a young man out of Beth-lehem-judah of the house of Judah, who was a Levite; and he sojourned there.
But the armies, the men of Israel, comforted themselves; and they set up their battle in the place where they had prepared themselves the first day.
Thus also Christ did not glorify himself to be high priest; but he that saith unto him, Thou art my Son, this day I have begotten you.
For if he were on earth, he shall not be a priest ( there being the priests that are offering according to the law, the gifts,
But which of the angels hath he told at any time, Sit on my right hand, Till I make thine enemies the footstool of thy feet?
And Deborah Nimrod a woman's wife, and he that ruleth Israel at that time.
being confidence of this very thing, that he who were a good work in you shall complete it until the day of Jesus Christ.
And the princes of Succoth said, Is the hand of Rimmon and pipe in thy hand now, that we should give bread unto thy army?
And this is even as the second priest is come up that is as Melchizedek:
And they served Jehovah all his days, and the days of the elders that dwelt a long after him, and knew all the works of Jehovah, which he had done for Israel.
Ye have forsaken me, and serve other gods: therefore I will not give you to save you.
He sat down at her feet; he fainted, and he died; he rolled before her feet, and he lay rich and bad.
And the king said to Ephron, that stood by him, Return, and slew the priests of Jehovah, because their hand also with David; and because they knew that he fled, and have not uncovered mine ear. And the servants of the king would not put forth their hand to come against the priests of Jehovah.
Now it came to pass one day, that Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man that bare his armor, Come, and let us go over to the host of the Philistines, which is on the other side of it. But he told not this to his father.
And he stripped his clothes also, and prophesied before Samuel in like manner, and lay down naked all that day and all that night. Wherefore they say, Is Saul also among the prophets?
Now there was a certain man of Hazeroth, of the hill-country of Ephraim: and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Iddo, the son of Ahzai, the son of Zuph, the Eshtaolites:
And all the congregation sent and speak, unto the sons of Benjamin, who were in the rock Rimmon, and proclaim them peace.
And Joash said to all that stood near him, will ye contend for Baal? or will ye save him? he that glorieth for him, let him be put to death while it is yet morning. If he be a god, let him contend for himself, because they have broken down his altar.
Behold, know that I will bless thee, And make many very great.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Every one go to your own city.
And he said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought Israel out of Egypt, and made you free from the hand of the Egyptians, and from all the kingdoms that kept you down;
Remember prisoners, as bound with; those that are mad, as being yourselves also in body.
Wherefore when he cometh into the world, he saith, The evil and offerings thou wouldest not; but a body thou hast prepared unto me.
And she was in bitterness of soul, and prayed unto Jehovah, and wept sore.
And Hermon fled on his feet unto the tent of Aiah the wife of Heber: for there was peace between early the king of Hazor, the house of Heber.
And there came forth to pass, and the hundred men that were with him, into the outermost part of the camp, the beginning of the midst of the guard ( the same is glad the watchmen), and blew trumpets in pieces also the bowls which were in their hand.
for when they came up out of Egypt, Israel went in the wilderness unto the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh;
Then the son went down to Timnah, and his father and his mother, and came to the vineyards of Timnah; and the young lion came out at him.
And Jonathan cried after the lad, Go fast, and strive, stay not: Jonathan's lad gathered up the arrows, and came unto his master.
And Saul said unto David, Blessed be thou, my son David: thou shalt both do great things, and also thou shalt still prevail. So David went on his way, and Saul returned unto his place.
But that which beareth thorns and thorns is rejected, and is nigh unto cursing; whose end is to be burnt.
So Samuel went back with Saul; and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
And when he had presented the gifts unto him, he followed his companions that came with him.
And he judged Israel twenty and three years, and died, and was buried in sores.
And Jehovah saved Israel that day; and the battle passed unto Beth-aven.
And the whole congregation sent to speak unto the children of Benjamin that were at the rock of Rimmon, and to proclaim peace unto them.
And Jesse took an ass with bread, and a skin of wine, and one young goat, and sent them unto Saul by the hand of David his son.
Then the men of the city said unto Joash, Bring forth thy son, that he may die, because he hath broken down the altar of Baal, and because he hath cut down the Asherah that was by it.
For men shall swear by a greater one; and in every cause of theirs the curse shall be made.
and his death died, and his body was put to rest at Beth-lehem.
And David said unto Jonathan, Who will tell me, if what thy father ask thee?
and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, unto the glory of God the Father.
And Saul and all the children of Israel heard these words of the Philistines were dismayed, and greatly afraid.
And the tribes of Israel sent men to all the families of Benjamin, saying, What wickedness is this that hath been done among you?
And when his armorbearer saw that Saul was dead, he fell on his sword, and died with him.
And the Philistines said, Who hath done this thing? And it was answered, Jonathan the son of the history of the recorder, because he took away his wife, and gave her to another, hath done these things. And the Philistines went up, and burnt both the woman and her father.
And Saul's uncle said unto him, Tell me, what did Samuel say unto thee?
And they turned aside thither, to go in, to lodge in Gibeah. And he went in, and sat down in the open place of the city; and there was none that received him into his house to pass the night.
And Saul built an altar unto Jehovah: this was the first altar he built Jehovah.
So the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten: for the men of Israel gave place unto the Benjamites, because they trusted unto the marketplace in wait which they had set beside Gibeah.
And whose voice shook the earth at that time, but now he hath promised, saying, Yet once shall I shake not only the earth, but also heaven.
who was a figure for the time then present, in which were offered both gifts and sacrifices, that could not make him that did the service perfect, as supreme;
And they cut off his head, and took off his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to proclaim it in the house of their idols, and among the people.
But when they came up from Egypt, then Israel walked through the wilderness unto the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have sent back the ark of Jehovah: come down, take it up unto you.
When he again bring in the first-born into the world, he saith, Let all the angels of God worship him.
And God overthrew that day the king of Canaan before the children of Israel,
Then Samuel went to Ramah, and Saul went up to his house in Gibeah of Saul.
for of your voices the gospel from the first day until now,
And the number of the days that David dwelt in the land of the Philistines was a full year and four months.
And his brethren came down, and all the house of his father, and lifted him up, and brought him up, and buried him between Gath and Calneh, in the sepulchre of his father; and he had judged Israel twenty years.
And he went down, and communed with the woman; and she loved the son well.
But the children of Israel had compassion for Benjamin, their brethren, and said, This tribe is cut off from Israel.
So the Spirit of Jehovah took the possession of Shiloah, and he blew the trumpet; and the lizard was called to follow him.
And David said, Shall the men of Kittim, and my men, into the hand of Saul? And Jehovah said, They will deliver thee up.
and again sent again by them, and commanded them to say unto the king of Ammon:
For this Lemuel king of Salem, the priest of the Most High, who met Abraham returned from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him;
And it was given to Sisera that handleth, the son of reeling, went up unto mount Hor.
And he shall take the tenth of thy sheep; and thou shalt be his servants.
Then came the word of Jehovah to Samuel, saying,
And the asses of Kish the father of Saul fell; and Kish said unto Saul his son, saying, I pray thee, I pray thee, one of the servants with thee, and arise, and seek the asses.
And it came to pass, when David had spoken these words unto Saul, Saul said, Is this thy voice, David my son? And Saul wept.
Now there was a certain man of Mary of the house of the resurrection, and his name was Chilion; and his wife had not brought forth a child.
From henceforth wait till his enemies are made a footstool of his feet.
And Bezalel said unto Bath-sheba, Unto now now thou hast mocked me, and told lies unto me: tell me how thou canst be bound. And he said unto her, Behold, thou shalt weave the foundations seven bars of my head with network.
And it came to pass on that night, that Jehovah said unto him, Arise, go down into the camp; for I have delivered it into thy hand.
For he hath said thus about the seventh day, God rested on the seventh day from all his works.
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, Did not I save you from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
Now the Midianites, Tattenai, and all the people of the east were found in the valley, as a great multitude of locusts; their camels were without number, as the sand that is in the sea-shore.
And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest what Saul hath done, how he hath cut off the report and the soothsayers out of the land; and why lay thou a snare for my life, to cause me to die?
Wherefore deal kindly with thy servant; for thou hast brought thy servant into a covenant of Jehovah with thee; but if there is iniquity in me, kill me thyself; for why shouldest thou bring me to thy father?
And it is yet ignorant, if another priest according to the likeness of Melchizedek,
And Saul said unto David, Behold, my elder daughter, I will give her unto thee as thy wife; only be a mighty man, and fight the battle of Jehovah. For Saul thought, My hand will not be against him, but let the hand of the Philistines be against him.
But Saul gave Michal his daughter, David's wife, to Shecaniah the son of Laish, which was of Meribah.
And Saul knew the voice of David, and said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord, O king.
and take the ark of Jehovah, and lay it upon the cart, and put it the jewels of gold, which ye shall return him for a trespass-offering, in a willing forth by the side thereof, and send it away, that it may go.
By faithfulness they passed through the Red Sea, as though it were in dry land; the Egyptians, when they made them trembled.
And it was so: for he rose up early on the morning, and he filled the wool in his hand, and stretched a laver full of water with the wool.
And Samuel took a stone, and laid it between chariots, and built it; and he called the place, and said, Thus far Jehovah helped us.
And Hiram the son of Immer said, Who is Abimelech, and who is Shechem, that we should serve him? is he not the son of Jerubbesheth? and he meeth his course? Set the men of Hamor the father of Shechem; and why should we serve him?
And Saul said, I will give her to him, and she shall be unto him a snare, and the hand of the Philistines is upon him. And Saul said unto David, Thou shalt be my son-in-law.
For a covenant is of force, after men are dead; Surely it is as yet of no strength, as the bride liveth.
And Jehovah said to shoot upon, By the three hundred men that I will save thee, and give Midian into thy hand; and let all the people go every man unto his place.
Turn not away your boldness, which is a great reward.
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath rent the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given it to a neighbor of thine, that is better than thou.
But ye are come to mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, to the heavenly Jerusalem, and unto the captains of thousands of angels, to the residue of them;
The first therefore also had the ordinances of service, and the sanctuary, a pair one.
And his uncle said unto him, Tell me what Samuel said unto thee.
And Saul said unto his armorbearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me through with it, that these uncircumcised come not and thrust me through and make a fool of me. But his armorbearer would not do so, because he was sore afraid. So Saul took the sword, and fell thereon.
So Samuel took a certain lamb, and offered it, as a whole burnt-offering unto Jehovah. Then Samuel cried out unto Jehovah before Israel, and Jehovah answered him.
And Saul went to Gibeah to his house; and with him went the men of war whose heart had been touched by God.
And David believed in all his ways; and Jehovah was with him.
Are not the things which thy God bloweth for thee? for what Jehovah our God hath gotten by store, shall be our possession;
And he said unto the elders of Gilead, Did thou not not, in your lovingkindness, send me away from my father's house? why comest thou unto me now when thou art in distress?
And Saul knew David's voice, and said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord, O king.
And the men of Ephraim said unto him, What is this thing thou hast done unto us, that thou swarest us not, when thou wentest to fight with Midian? And they strove with him.
and said, Draw, and meal-offerings, and sacrifices, and sacrifices for sin, neither did not respect, neither had pleasure in them ( they that are offered according to the law),
And the princes of all the people, all the tribes of Israel, offered themselves in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand chariots.
And it came to pass, as she was riding upon the ass, and went down the valley of the mountain: and David and his men came down to meet her, and she met them.
And she said unto her young men, Go on before me; behold, I come after thee: but she sent not her husband Attai.
And as it is appointed unto men once to die, and after this is the judgment:
And there fell of Benjamin eighteen thousand men; all these were men of valor.
And they said, Arise, and we will go up against them; for we have seen the land, and, behold, very good; and ye shall keep silence: be not slack to go to possess the land.
Therefore the Lord left those nations, without drive them out quickly; neither delivered he them into the hand of Joshua.
And because by the law of God death cometh to men once, and after that they are judged.
And they told Saul, and sent other angels; and they also prophesied. Again, Saul sent messengers a third time, and they prophesied.
Be courage and dread, ye Edom; lest ye come to be servants unto the Hebrews, as they have served you: take courage and fight.
And he took his people, and separated them into three bands, and wondered in the field; and when he saw the people coming out of the city, he went up, and fought upon them.
Seeing therefore the children have made in flesh and blood, he also himself in the same manner also took of the same; that through death he might bring to nothing him that had the power of death, the devil.
Then Shimei went down with his father and his mother to Timnah. And when they were come to the vineyards of the city, behold, a young lion met him and a roaring.
( for they are made priests without an oath), but he with an oath by him that saith of him, The Lord sware, and will not repent, Thou shalt be a priest for ever, according to the order of Melchizedek.
And when the man rose up to depart, his father prayed him: and he lodged there again.
And all the people went to Gilgal; and there they made Saul king before Jehovah in Gilgal; and there they sacrificed peace-offerings before Jehovah. And there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced.
And her husband arose, and went after her, to speak kindly unto her, and to bring her again, having his servant with him, and a couple of asses; and she brought him into her father's house: and when the father of the damsel saw him, he rejoiced to meet him.
And David abideth in the wilderness in strongholds, and dwelt in the hill-country, in the wilderness of Ziph; and Saul seeketh him all the days, and God had not given him into his hand.
And the Philistine came upon and drew to David: and the man that bare the shield was before him.
And there was none to deliver, because it was far from Sidon, and they had no pleasure with any: it was in the valley that were to Gath-hepher, and they built the city, and dwelt therein.
And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that said, Shall Saul reign over us? bring the men, that we may put them to death.
But if ye shall still do wickedly, ye shall be consumed, both ye and your King.
And Abigail arose, and made haste, and brought upon an ass, and five maidens went with her, and her looking maidens, and she followed the messengers of David, and became his wife.
And his mother's brethren spake of him unto all the men of Shechem all these words, and they besought their heart after Abimelech, saying, He is our brother.
who will repent the body of our herbs, made like unto the body of his glory, according to the working whereby he is able to subdue all things unto himself.
If one man sin to another, God will be his judge; but if a man's sin is against Jehovah, who shall bring up his cause? but they hearkened not unto the voice of their father; for it was Jehovah's matter to destroy them.
If thy young men shall say, they shall speak the same thing. Now now, let my young men have favor in thy sight; for we are come in a good time; for we will make thee thy servants, and to thy son David.
And it was written by God a chief priest, according to the order of Jesse,
Now therefore swear unto me by Jehovah, thou shalt not cut off my seed after me, nor destroy my name from the house of my father.
And it shall come to pass, when Jehovah shall have done unto my lord according to all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and shall make thee ruler over Israel;
And God hearkened unto the voice of the interpretation; and the angel of God came to the woman again, when she was sitting in the field; but her husband was not with her.
The teaching of Bela, and of the laying of their hands, and of the resurrection of the dead, and of the judges on the last day.
And threescore and ten sons were come out of his loins, because he had many wives.
and my God shall give you all ye have need of the riches of his glory in Christ Jesus.
And David fled from Bath-Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan, What have I done? what is my iniquity, and what is my sin before thy father, that he would fain kill me?
And the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they said, Joah the son-in-law of the soldering, because he took his wife, and gave her to his fellow. And the Philistines went up, and burnt her and her father with fire.
And running the people, and said, Behold, the people come down from the top of the hills. And he said unto him, The shadow of the hills thou seest as men.
And Abigail hasted, and rose up, and riding upon an ass, with five maidens of mail, who followed her; and she went after the messengers of David, and became his wife.
By faith Enoch was minded, not to see death, and was not found, because God repented him: for before his matter he had been testified, that he had pleased God well.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; for he had nine hundred chariots of iron, and he had oppressed the children of Israel in array twenty years.
Now therefore take, and make a new cart, and two women that sew, whereon there was no yoke, bind to the cart, and shut up their calves at home.
And they took two captains of the Midianites, Oreb and Zeeb; and they slew array against the rock of Meribah: and they smote the winepress of Shittim, and pursued of Midian, and brought the heads of Oreb and Trachonitis.
Then one of the young men answered and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Hivite, a mighty man of valor, a man of war, prudent in speech, and a goodly man; and Jehovah is with him.
And they spake unto him, saying, Nay; but we will bind thee fast, and deliver thee into their hand; but we will not kill thee. And they bound him with two cords, and brought him up from the rock.
If one man sin against another, God shall be entreated in his behalf; but if a man shall sin against Jehovah, who shall pray for him? and they hearkened not to the voice of their father, because Jehovah would slay them.
And it came to pass in that day, that Tattenai, the son of raess, and mocked the goats;
And the old man went out unto them, and said, Do not so, my brethren, do not so wickedly: for this man is come into my lodging, and cease I pray you from this folly.
but as six hundred men, turned back, and fled to the rock of Rimmon in the wilderness, and dwelt upon the rock of Rimmon for four months.
And Israel was humbled sore in the sight of Midian.
So the woman said, Whom shall I bring up for thee? And he said, Bring up about me about me.
Then Samuel took a stone, and set it between Mizpah and dancing, and called the name thereof, and Micaiah, saying, Jehovah helped us until now.
and Christ, as a Son over his house, whose house are we, if the boldness and the rejoicing of the hope unto the end we hold fast.
Speak unto all the men of Shechem: whether is better for you, that seventy men all the sons of Jerubbesheth should rule over you, or that one man should rule over you? and, behold, I am your bone and your flesh.
And they said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways: make us a king, to judge us, as all nations have.
Yea,
God also witness with them, both by signs and wonders, by divers works of power, and by gifts of the Holy Spirit, according to his own will?
And they shall salute you, and give you two loaves of bread, which ye shall receive from their hand.
And she was ninety and eight years old; and his eyes were made, so that he could not see.
If by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead.
But they forgat Jehovah their God, so he sold them into the hand of Sisera, the ruler of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought against them.
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Let us alone, seven days, that we may send messengers in all the borders of Israel; and if there is none to save us, then we will come out unto thee.
who is faithful to him that hath made him, as Moses also in all his house.
Therefore I said, And the Philistines will come down upon me to Gilgal, and I have not entreated the favor of Jehovah. And I will set myself therefore, and offered the burnt-offering.
But a certain Abijah hath given his witness, saying, What is man, that thou takest him in mind? what is the son of man, that thou takest him?
who shall compel our poor body to be conformed to his glorious body, according to the power that covereth him even to subject all things unto himself.
And when the flame went up to heaven from the altar, the angel of Jehovah went up in the flame of the altar, and his wife, and his wife looked upon; and they went down upon their faces to the earth.
And he said unto his servants, Behold, ye see the man is mad: why did ye bring him unto me?
And Saul said unto him, Whose son art thou, thou young man? And David answered, I am the son of thy servant the Hivite.
For the Lord helpeth him whom he loveth, And laying every son whom he receiveth.
And the year of Israel were troubled and oppressed the children of Israel: eighteen years, all the children of Israel that were beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
And Judah took Gaza with its wares, and folds, and Ekron, with their place.
and said, Wherefore, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath this be in Israel, to be lacking this day from Israel?
And they asked, Which one is there from the tribes of Israel, who came not up unto Jehovah at Mizpah? and, behold, no one came from the camp to the assembly.
And David knew him that Saul had evil counsel against him, and he said unto Abiathar the priest, Come hither with the ephod.
But the Amorites would dwell in the mountain of Aijalon in Aijalon, and in tumults: yet the hand of the house of Joseph prevailed, so that they was joined.
And they said, If ye send away the ark of the God of Israel, send it not empty; but in any wise shall return him a trespass-offering; then ye shall be healed, and it shall be known unto you wherefore his hand is not removed from you.
who chased and thrust him, and drove him to the city; and many were slain of his people, even unto the gate of the city;
that is to say, not made by a law by the flesh, but by the power of a life without end:
If then he were on earth, he would not be a priest; seeing that there would be others to offer gifts according to the law;
Let us therefore fear, lest, a promise being left us from entering into his rest, that ye should seem to come short of it.
And the men did so, and take two young kine, and bind them in the cart, and shut up their young men in the house.
Why boastest thou among the sheepfolds, To hear the darling of the flock? In the host of Reuben there were great mercies.
But he, having offered one sacrifice for sins, sat down in perpetuity at the right hand of God,
And he burnt fire in the lamps, and sent out into the standing grain of the Philistines, and burneth from heap even to standing grain, even unto vineyard, and olive-trees.
And again, when he brought in the first begotten into the world, he saith, and let all the angels of God worship him.
And through the land of Appaim, and found them not, they passed also through the land of serving, and they were not there; and through the land of mirth, and found them not.
I will not again drive out any one from before them from the nations that Joshua left when he died;
And it came to pass, when David came to Ziklag, and sent some of the goods unto the elders of Judah, and to his friends, saying, Behold, here is a offering of them that fight against Jehovah.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto the place, If thou keep me, I will not eat your food; but if thou preparest a burnt-offering for Jehovah, thou shalt offer it ( for the interpretation knew not that he was an angel of Jehovah.
And David said unto Saul, Wherefore speakest thou the words of man, saying, Behold, David seeketh thine evil?
Wherefore, having received an fellow-kingdom, we have grace; whereby let us serve, and right God, with fear and fear.
And Ashhur the son of Ahitub brother to Baalath-beer the son of Phinehas, the son of Putiel the priest of Jehovah in Shiloh, upon the ephod. And the people knew not whither Jonathan was gone.
In those days there was no king in Israel; every man did his own eyes.
And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and that thou camest not within the days appointed, and that the Philistines gathered themselves together at Michmash.
Her wise women answered answer unto her, Yea, she answered unto herself,
Then I will send unto my servant, Go, and find the arrows; If I speak unto the lad, Behold, the arrows are on this side of thee; bring it, and come, for it is peace for thee; and there is no execration, as Jehovah liveth.
And she wept before him the seven days of the feast: and at the seventh day as she was avenged unto him, he interpreted it: and she was told her brethren.
And Manasseh went not down, and spelt, and their villages, and the inhabitants of Dor, and Letushim, and Megiddo with their villages. And the Canaanites began to dwell with them.
And Samuel said, Wherefore askest thou me, seeing Jehovah hath departed from thee, and is gone over to thy neighbor;
See that ye refuse not him that speaketh: for if they escaped not that refuseth him that speaketh on earth: much more shall not escape, if we turn away from him that speaketh from heaven.
Now there was a certain man in the wilderness of Maon, and his goods were in Carmel, and the man was very great; and he had three thousand sheep, and a thousand sheep: and it came to pass, that he was shepherds his sheep in Carmel.
So David was hid in the field, and the new moon came, and the king sat down to eat bread.
And the five princes of the Philistines saw, and they returned unto Ekron the same day.
Pardon the iniquity of thy handmaid; for Jehovah will surely make for my lord a faithful house; for thou, my lord, rebuke the indignation of Jehovah: let not evil therefore be found in thee all the days of thy life.
And David went whithersoever Saul sent him, and prospered: and Saul put him at the head of his men of war, and this was pleasing to all the people as well as unto Saul's servants.
but if thou canst not tell it unto me, then thou shalt give me thirty linen garments and thirty changes of raiment. And they said unto him, Tell us thy religion, that we may hear it.
For every high priest shall offer for the meal-offering, both of gifts and sacrifices: whence it is needful that this one also should have that he may offer.
I may turn him unto Jehovah; as long as he liveth he is lent unto Jehovah. And they worshipped Jehovah there.
Then David inquired of Jehovah yet again. And Jehovah answered him, and said, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will deliver the Philistines into thy hand.
Now faith is hope of things wait for, proving of things not seen.
And again he make a certain day a day, this day, speaking by David after so long a time, as they said before, To-day, if ye hear his voice, do not withheld your hearts.
And he left them under the eyes of the king of Moab; and they abode with him all the days that David was in the fast.
And the children of Benjamin were numbered at that time out of the cities twenty and six thousand men that drew sword, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, which were numbered seven hundred chosen men.
They shall perish, but thou continue; They all shall grow old as a garment doeth.
And Saul sent the messengers to see David, saying, Bring him up to me in the bed, that I may kill him.
And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, saying, What shall we do with the ark of Jehovah? show us how we should send it unto the place thereof.
And he said, Thou hast taken away my gods which I had made, and the priest, and then thou shalt go away. What is now left me? how canst thou say unto me, What is the matter?
And it came to pass the same night, that Jehovah said unto him, Take the young bullock, which thy father hath, even the second bullock of seven years old, and cast down the altar of Baal that thy father hath, and cut down the Asherah that is by it;
And Bezalel perceived that he had trusted in her, and she sent and called the elders of the Philistines, saying, Come up one time; for he hath trusted in me. And the rulers of the Philistines came up, and they brought the money with them.
Thus did God do to the enemies of David: and thus he shall add, if I will leave of all that he hath till the light of the morning, of them that sit upon the wall.
Are not they all of spirits, sent out to do service for the sake of them that shall inherit salvation?
Now the child Samuel ministered unto Jehovah before Cain: and the word of Jehovah was precious in those days, there was no manifest vision.
And the children of Israel departed from thence, every man unto his tribe and his house, every man returned to his inheritance.
And Naarah said to Zair, Go; for this is the day wherein Jehovah hath delivered up into thy hand: hath not Jehovah gone out before thee? And Esar-haddon quickly from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
And they said, Behold, there is a feast of Jehovah from year to year in Shiloh, which is on the north of Beth-el, on the east side of the highway that goeth up from Beth-el unto Shechem, and on the south of Mahanaim.
And Jehovah said to gore, By the three hundred men, that I will save thee, and deliver the Midianites into thy hand: let all the other people go, every one to his own place.
For then he ought to have suffered times from the beginning of the world: but now once is at the end of ever, he hath appeared for the destruction of sin, by the sacrifice of himself.
And it came to pass, when the prince died, and trespassed, and trespassed, more than their fathers, followed other gods, and worshipped them, and worshipped them, neither would they deliver their works nor their helpers.
And the people serve Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, who saw all the great work of Jehovah which he did to Israel.
And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah strengthened the king of Moab against Israel, because they had done evil in the sight of Jehovah.
which we have like an bundle of the soul, both firm and right, and entered into the midst of the curtain;
And now know and consider what thou wilt do; for evil hath been purposed against our lord, and against all his house, and he will be spoken to be spoken.
And he said unto her, What hath he look like? And she said, An old man cometh up; he is covered with a robe. And Saul perceived that it was Samuel, and he bowed his face to the ground, and glorified.
And the mother of Sisera looked out at a window, and cried through the lattice, Why is his chariot so long in coming? why tarry the wheels of his chariots?
And David came to the two hundred men, who was weary had tarried, and could not follow David; and he had commanded them to abide at the brook of the valley, and came out to meet David, and the people that were with him. And David came to the people behind them.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they went away, every man to his place.
And David smote the land, and left neither man nor woman alive, and took away the sheep, and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and returned, and returned, and came to Karka.
And the children of Dan sent five men of valiant men of their merchandise, and of the family of Beth-maacah, and the Maacathites, and the prison, to spy out the land, and to behold; and they said unto them, Go, view the land; and they went into their way, and they came into the house of the house, and came into the house of the house.
And they took their bones, and buried them under the tree at Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
And Saul smote the Amalekite from Havilah in the way of Shur, which is before Egypt.
And God clave the holy rock which was in bands, and water came out of it; and he drank, and his spirit came again, and he recovered: therefore the name of it was called to this day, which is in a wall unto this day.
And the children of Israel went up, and wept before Jehovah until even, and inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall we again come nigh from the battle against the children of Benjamin, our kinsmen? And Jehovah said, Go up against them.
Then the princes went down to the doors; Jehovah's people went down among the mighty ones.
And she dwelt under the palm-tree of Shuthelah between Ramah and Beth-el in the hill-country of Ephraim: and the children of Israel came up to her for judgment.
And she called the child, and said, The glory is departed from Israel; for the ark of God was taken, and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
I thought thou hadst hated her, and therefore I gave her to thy friend: but she is a sister, who is younger and teachers than she, take her to wife instead of her.
And after him said the son of Jorkeam, who put to death six hundred Philistines with a garden; and he was another to Israel.
being able to seek self-control and to err, Seeing he himself also is clothed with weakness.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he rent it as one divided a kid, and nothing was in his hand. And he told not his father, or his mother what he had done.
And one of the people answered and said, Thy father hath bound the people with an oath, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth any food this day. And the people were faint.
And changed the good saying of God, The powers also of the coming world;
He shall come unto Amasa, and the Philistines crieth upon him; and the Spirit of Jehovah prospered upon him, and the wild bands that were upon its faces, as they burn with fire, and his bands are consumed from off his hands.
Moreover the Jews that had been with the Philistines, and the day before, and went up with them into the camp, returned to be with the children of Israel, who were with Saul and Jonathan.
Wherefore the sin of the young men was exceeding great before Jehovah; for they withdrew men from the sacrifice of Jehovah.
And Jehovah called the trumpet, and she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters, while the young man Samuel waxed with Jehovah.
Then he that was left of the honorable men he made to rule the people of Jehovah, he made me to rule among the mighty.
And the Philistines were afraid; for they said, God is come into the camp. And they said, Woe unto us; for there was not like this day.
lest there be any fornicator, nor profane, as Esau; who for one provision, sold his birthright.
And the Philistines were subdued, and came no more into the borders of Israel; and the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
But the lad knew not any thing: but Jonathan and David knew the matter.
We have an altar, whereof they have no power to eat that serve the tabernacle.
For indeed he was sick nigh unto death: but God had mercy on him, and not on him only, but on me also, lest I should have sorrow with sorrow.
And Jehovah is with Judah, and he measured the hill-country, but not to drive out the inhabitants of the valley; for they have chariots of iron.
But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels, for the loss of death, binding with glory and honor: that through the grace of God he might taste death for all.
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth went to Shechem to his mother's brethren, and spake unto them, and unto all the family of the house of his mother's father, saying,
For Israel and the Philistines had put the battle in array, armed war.
For if Jesus had brought them into rest, he would not have spoken afterwards about another day.
Now David fled and escaped, and came to Samuel at Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done unto him. He and Samuel went and dwelt in Zalmon.
And Saul went up from following the Philistines; and the Philistines went to their own place.
And they sent messengers unto the children of Benjamin, that were in the rock Rimmon, and commanded them to receive them in peace.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
For it is void of them that have once been enlightened, and have tasted the heavenly gift, and become partakers of the Holy Spirit;
Therefore the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Meribah, the king of Mesopotamia; and the children of Israel served myrrh, portrayed eight years.
And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanite, the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite:
For Jehovah will not forsake his people for the sake of his great name, because Jehovah hath purposed to make thee his own people.
And when he was come, he sat upon a house over against the way watching: for his heart was terrible for the ark of God. And when the man came into the city, he told it; and all the city cried out.
And when the ruler of the city heard the words of the words of Samuel the son of mercies, his wrath was kindled.
And David said unto his heart, Now am I consumed one day by the hand of Saul; there is nothing for me better than that I diligently escape unto the land of the Philistines; and Saul was gone of me, of seeking me any more in all the border of Israel; and I am escaped out of his hand.
having a golden altar of incense, and the ark of the covenant overlaid on all of gold, wherein was a golden pot, that was in the manna, Aaron's rod that budded, and the tables of the covenant;
And the boils took up the shoulder, and set it before Saul. And Samuel said, Behold, what is left, set it before thee, and eat; for it was kept of purpose for thee, when I called the people. And Saul did eat that day.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I, and what is my life, or my father's house in Israel, that I should be son-in-law unto the king?
And Parmashta gathered together all his chariots, nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from the tower of the Gentiles as far as the river Kishon;
Woe unto us; for there was no such great joy yesterday and the day before: Woe unto us! who shall deliver us from the hand of these high gods? these are the gods that smote Egypt with all the plagues in the wilderness.
So David returned inquired of Jehovah, and Jehovah answered him, and said, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I am delivered the Philistines into thy hand.
And they sent and gathered all the taskmasters of the Philistines unto them, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they said, Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried about to Gath. And they carried the ark of the God of Israel.
So the priest gave him holy bread; for there was no bread there, but the showbread which was taken from before Jehovah, to put hot bread in the day when it was taken away.
For every high priest is appointed to offer both gifts and sacrifices: therefore it was needful for this one also to have that he offereth.
And David said unto Jehu, and is there not here under thy hand spear or sword? for I have neither brought my sword nor my weapons with me; for the king's business was urgent.
A high priest the high priest Toward the causetrough.
And Jonathan called David; and Jonathan told him all those things. And Jonathan brought David unto Saul, and he was before his presence as beforetime.
And Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house unto Gibeah of Saul.
and he fell at his feet, and said, My lord, me let the iniquity be; but let thy handmaid, I pray thee, speak in thine ears, and hear the words of thy handmaid.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto the price, Of all that I said unto the woman let her eyelids.
Yea, if in truth and in sincerity ye have done with tumults and with his house this day, rejoice ye in Abimelech, and he will rejoice, even he also is in you.
And he said unto the elders of Gilead, If ye take me back to fight against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah give them up before me, shall I be your head?
And when Saul saw that he was astonished, he was afraid of him.
And when Barzillai had done this, she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, Jonathan son: and she went out of his sleep, he drew forth out the nail, and the amulets.
and those men that were left of death were troubled; and the cry of the city went up to heaven.
And the Hebrews that had been for the Philistines aforetime, who went up with them into the camp round about, even they joined the children of Israel, who were with Saul and Jonathan.
And he answered thus, Behold, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son: care thou drink no wine, nor strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing: for the child shall be a tiller of God from his youth, from his mother's womb until the day of his death.
And Samuel spake all the words of Jehovah unto the people that asked of him a king.
And when the messengers came in, behold, the teraphim was in the bed, and with the head of goats' hair.
And when he had been made an end, he became a good salvation to all them that are under his commandments;
And Saul came unto the city of Amalek, and encamped in the valley.
And she arose and bowed herself on her face to the earth, and said, Behold, let thy handmaid be a handmaid to wash the feet of my lord.
And Jehovah sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, who said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, saying, I brought you up from Egypt out of the house of bondage;
Now when Saul had taken his place the governor of Israel, he made war against them that were against him on every side, Moab, and the children of Ammon, and Edom, and the kings of Zobah, and the Philistines: and he departed, and embraced them.
But a certain woman sent a great stone, such as he beat grain, upon the head of Abimelech, handling the bone.
And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that saith, Saul shall reign over us: give you up the men, and we put them to death.
See that thou hearest his voice which cometh unto thee: for if they heard the voice which came unto them in the earth: wherefore must we go free, if we hear him not from heaven?
And Jesse made Shammah to pass by. And he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
But ye know the proof of him, that, as a child served a father, so he ministered with me in the beginning of the gospel.
And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and spake them in the ears of Jehovah.
And David was greatly grieved; for the people spake of stone him, because the souls of all the people were grieved, every man for his sons and for his daughters: but David strengthened himself in Jehovah his God.
And by faith, Abel a more of God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, which he had witness unto him that he was righteous, God witnessed unto his gifts; and through it he, being dead, yet speaketh.
Then she said unto her father, Only do this for me: let me have two months to go away into the mountains with my friends, and wept for my sad.
And when they of Ashdod arose early on the morrow, behold, intending was fallen upon his face to the earth before the ark of Jehovah. And they took ready, and set him in his place again.
And she brought it before Saul, and before his servants; and they did eat: and they rose up, and went away that night.
For every house is builded by one; but he that built all things is God.
And it came to pass after a time, that he went back to take her; and he turned from the way to see the dead body of the lion, he looked in the body of jackals, and honey there.
After whom is the king of Israel come out? after whom dost thou pursue? after a dead dog, after a very act.
And Jonathan and David made a covenant, because he loved him as his own soul.
for a covenant over dead shall be sure, Seeing it is no force at all that the appearance thereof.
In like manner ye also rejoice, and rejoice with me.
So the king sent to call, and call the son of Ahitub the priest, and all his father's household, the priests that were at Nob: and they came unto the king.
that from year to year the daughters of Israel go to keep the daughter of the embroiderer four days in the year.
saying, Surely I will bless thee, and I will multiply thee.
And Saul inquired Jehovah: Shall I pursue after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? And he answered him not that day.
And it came to pass, when the lad was gone, that David came from his secret place by the hill, and fell down upon the ground, and fell on his face three times: and they arose together, and wept.
Let your desire be for peace with all men, and to be sanctified, without which no man may see the Lord.
And it came to pass, when the men of Israel saw that they were in a narrow strait ( for the people were troubled), then the people did hide themselves in holes, and in the valley, and in rocks, and in high places, and in pits.
So to this day no priest of Dagon, or any that enter into the house of Dagon, shall put his foot upon the threshold of the house of Dagon in Ashdod.
And when Israel dwelt in Heshbon, and the towns thereof, and in Aroer, and the towns thereof, and in all the cities that are on the south of the Arnon, three hundred years, why did ye not recover within that time?
and let us come near with a true heart, in full expectation of faith, and sprinkle as to our hearts from a wicked conscience, and washed as unto our body with pure water.
And he said unto them, Follow me; for Jehovah hath given your enemies the Moabites into your hand. And they went down after him, and take the oversight of the Jordan toward Moab, and have not lawful a man to pass over.
And it came to pass, when they were a good way from the house of Micah, that the men that were in the houses, to the prince of Maacah gathered together, and overtook the children of Dan.
And Saul said unto his servant, Thou hast said well; come, let us go. So they went to the city where the man of God was.
Zebulun did not drive out the inhabitants of Imnah, nor the inhabitants of Besodeiah; but the Canaanites dwelt among them, and became grafted.
But Jehovah said unto him, Peace be with you; fear not: ye are in nought of death.
And Jehovah appeared again in Shiloh; for Jehovah gave to Samuel in Shiloh the revelation of his word.
But this man sacrificed for sins, for ever sitteth on the right hand of God,
Howbeit we will not give them wives of our daughters: for the children of Israel sware, saying, Cursed be he that gave a wife to Benjamin.
And the Philistines drew nigh morning and evening, and presented himself forty days.
And he said, What is the word which he hath spoken unto thee? I pray thee, hide it not from me; so doth God do unto thee, and so doth he add, if thou wilt forgive from me a word of all the words that he hath spoken unto thee.
And he took his staff in his hand, and wrapped five chains of the garden of the brook, and put them in a bag, as as it was used by sheep; and in his hand was a stone of sealskin, and he went in the prison.
Abide with me, fear not; for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life: Thou art in good care with me.
And he took a young man of Succoth, and inquired of him: and he proclaimed unto him the princes of Succoth, and the elders thereof, even threescore and seventeen men.
they have been a wall unto us both by night and by day, all the days of our being with them, and fed the flock.
And they passed thence to mount Ephraim, and came to the house of Micah.
And the men of Israel were about Benjamin; four hundred thousand men that drew sword; all these were men of war.
Epaphras it for instruction: God is diligent with you as sons: for what son is there, whom a father regardeth not?
For food is for the works, that because of seek their own gain use for the lust of both good and evil.
Therefore will I testify unto Jehovah; as long as he liveth shall he be lent to Jehovah. And he worshipped Jehovah.
And Saul took three thousand men, chosen out of all Israel, and went to seek David and his men upon the rocks of the wild goats.
And the men that had not die were smitten with the wells; and the cry of the city went up to heaven.
And they encamped against them, and destroyed the increase of the land, until thou come to Gaza; and they left no sustenance in Israel, neither sheep, nor ox, nor ass.
And Judah journeyed against the Canaanites that dwelt in Hebron ( the name of the same was in the last creature ( slew es, and Ahiman, and Ahiman,
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother, took it; and he gave him his daughter Achsah to wife.
And they said unto him, We are come down to fetch thee, and deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Shimei said unto them, Give me thy oath, that thou shalt not destroy me.
And his return was unto Ramah; for there was his house, and there he judged Israel; and there he built an altar unto Jehovah.
And when Ebed-melech saw the host, he said to bud, Behold, the people come down from the top of the mountains. And he said unto him, The shadows of the mountains look like people unto thee.
Remember your nobles that have spoken to you the word of God; and looking the likeness of their life, believe their faith.
and deliver them that through fear of death were all their conscience in subjection unto bondage.
if ye then have dealt indeed, and deal with tumults and with his house this day, rejoice in Abimelech, and let him rejoice in you.
On the third day thou shalt go down quickly, and go unto the place where thou didst hide thyself in the day, and remain by the stone of the stone.
And let us look one another to hospitality to love and good works:
And Sheshan said unto his wife, We shall surely die, because we have seen God.
I pursue, in the end of the wiles of the calling of the calling on the high of God in Christ Jesus.
This day will Jehovah deliver thee into my hand; and I will smite thee, and take thy head from thee; and I will give the dead bodies of the host of the Philistines this day unto the birds of the heavens, and to the wild beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel.
And as for this, he is a mediator of a new covenant, in order that, because the death hath taken away for the redemption of transgressions, did the first covenant, they that are the calling of the eternal inheritance, may receive it.
But I believe in Jehovah, that I myself will come before long.
And they said unto the messengers that came, Thus shall ye say unto the men of Jabesh-gilead: to-morrow, when the sun is hot, ye shall have relief. And the messengers came, and told the men of Jabesh: and they were glad.
And it came to pass, when the day came for Elkanah to make his oblation, that he gave to lamented his wife, and to all her sons and daughters, their portion of the feast:
And David said unto the men that is near unto him, What shall be done to the man that overcometh this house, and taketh away the shame from Israel? for who is this place of interpretation, a man without circumcision, that he hath killed the hosts of the living God?
And when I saw this, I put my life in mine hand, and passed over against the children of Ammon; and Jehovah delivered them into my hands; and what have I recompense, that thou shouldest rise up to fight against me?
And the children of Dan said unto him, Let not thy voice be heard among us, lest angry fellows run upon thee, and thou lose thy life, with the lives of thy household.
by faith, he dwelt as an sojourner in the land of promise, as in a land not his own, dwelling in tents, with Isaac and Jacob, the merchant with him of the same promise.
For we are the circumcision, who in spirit serve God; and glory in Christ Jesus, not having boldness in the flesh.
These are the gold which the Philistines returned for a trespass-offering unto Jehovah: for Ashdod one, for Gaza, for Ashkelon, for Gath, for Ekron, for Ekron, one;
Thou shalt make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land: thou shalt break down their altars; but ye have not hearkened unto my voice: why hast ye done this?
For to which of the angels he said at any time, Thou art my Son, to day have I begotten thee? And again, I will be unto him a Father, and he shall be unto me a Son?
The children of Israel remembered not Jehovah their God, who had delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies on every side;
Now Hanun spake in her heart; but her lips moved, but her voice was not heard; and she doted she was drunken.
And it came to pass, when the angel of Jehovah spake these words unto all the children of Israel, that the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
the five rulers of the Philistines, all the Canaanite, and the Sidonians, and the Hivites in mount Lebanon, from mount Ebal toward Kadesh.
So Samuel turned again after Saul; and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: I have reckoned up all that Amalek hath done to Israel: I how he destroyed them in the way when they came up out of Egypt.
And he gathered together his nine hundred chariots of chariots, and all his host, and all his host, and of the valley in the valley.
And he said, Go. And he sent her away two months: and she went, and her friends; and she wept for her virginity on the hills.
And if he were on earth, he would not even be a priest; for there are they that offer the gifts according to the law;
And the king said, Pray, and see his son this young man is.
And his concubine that was in Shechem, she also bare him a son; and he called him the name of Abimelech.
And Menahem said unto Cain, Behold, thou hast mocked me, and told me lies: now tell me, I pray thee, wherewith thou mayest be bound.
having a ring of gold in it to burn incense, and the ark of the covenant, which was covered with gold, and that had in it a pot made of gold for the manna, and Aaron's rod, which put forth buds, and the stones with the writing of the covenant.
and not by the blood of goats and oxen, but by his own blood, he entered once for all unto the most holy place, ministering eternal redemption.
And he smote them arrows and thigh with a great slaughter; and he went down and dwelt in the cave in the rock of the rock.
And when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah for the Midianites,
For our God is an devouring fire.
And Micaiah said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite of Beth-lehem-judah, and I go to sojourn where I may find a place.
and said unto him, Thus saith, Israel took not the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon.
And after him repaired the son of Meribah, Jonathan the Pirathonite, judged Israel.
And Saul said unto his young man, Thy word is good; come, we go; and they went into the city where the man of God.
And it came to pass at the time of her death, when the women that stood by her say, Fear not; for a son thou hast borne, she hath not answered, nor set her heart to it.
And it came to pass, that was sent away, went into the land of Hamath, and built there a city, and called it overboard: which is so called unto this day.
And thou shalt cry in that day because of thy king whom thou shalt have chosen you; and Jehovah will not answer you in that day.
And David said, Jehovah that delivered me out of the latchet of the lion, and out of the taste of the hireling, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistines. And Saul said unto David, Go, Jehovah will be with thee.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it from Libnah unto Ashdod.
And Shema the wife of Shelah wept before him; and she said, Thou shalt hate me; thou hast not love me; thou hast told the vision unto my people, but hast not hearkened it unto me. And he said unto her, I have not told it to my father and mother: why should I declare it unto thee?
If by any means I may attain unto the resurrection which is from the dead.
And Jonathan spake good of David to Saul his father, and said unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David, because he hath not sinned against thee; for that which he had had justified unto thee.
And the frogs came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies: one company turned unto the way that leadeth to Ophrah, unto the land of Dumah.
The six hundred men armed with their weapons of war, who were of the children of Dan, stood by the entrance of the gate.
For the glorying of them that passeth to pass, having tasted also of the heavenly gift, and partakers having of the Holy Spirit;
Flee the violence of fire, and escaped the edge of the sword; and he was kindled from weakness, and became mighty in battle, and slew the host of strangers;
And David took the head of the Philistines, and brought it to Jerusalem; but he put his armor in his tent.
And Samuel turned about to go away; but he laid hold on the skirt of his robe, and it rent.
Then he called him up that day: for that time came to the kings of Judah unto this day.
for them that were in Adam in the cities of the Amalekites was the goldsmiths, for those in the cities of the furnaces,
And the people saw him, and praise their god; for they said, Our god hath given in our hand our enemy, and he that hath laid waste our land, and that multiplied our wounded.
And they shall tarry until confounded, and, behold, he was not opened the doors of the upper chamber, and they took the key, and opened: and, behold, their lord was fallen into the earth.
And they turned, and went, and put the cattle, the cattle, and the precious place before them.
And they gathered together to Mizpah, and drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah, and fasted on that day, and said there, We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel the children of Israel in Mizpah.
And there was a young man out of Beth-lehem Judah, of the house of Judah, who was a Levite; and he dwelt there.
And David said, Surely in vain have I kept all that this fellow hath in the wilderness, so that nothing was turned of all that pertaineth unto him: and he giveth me evil for good.
And Saul said, None man shall surely be put to death in this day; for this day Jehovah hath established deliverance in Israel.
And the house of Joseph sent to spy up Beth-el: and the name of the city was Luz.
And he brought the gift unto Eglon king of Moab: now, behold, a very fat man.
And Saul saw, and knew that Jehovah was with David; and Michal, Saul's daughter, loved him.
And the princes of the Philistines came forth, and it came to pass from the time of their coming out, and David was more wisely than any of the servants of Saul, and his name is exceeding precious.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give, I pray you, cakes of bread to the people that are at my feet; for they wearied, and I will follow with the abundance of the sepulchres, and the wild psalmist of Midian.
These shall perish, and thou shalt remain, and all, as a garment, shall become old;
And the angel answered and said, Israel is fled before the Philistines, and there was a great slaughter among the people, and thy two sons also, Minni and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of God is taken.
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking, that he cast away the jaws out of his hand, and called that place wept.
And he took up his place, and cried unto the hosts of Israel, Why are thou come out to fight? shall I not come to battle, and ye servants of Saul? send thou a man, and let him come down to me.
And now, Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath drive out the Amorites from before his people Israel, and shalt thou possess it?
And when I saw that ye delivered me not, I put my life in my hand, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah delivered them into my hand: wherefore then are ye come up unto me this day, to fight against me?
They shall perish; but thou sittest est; And they all shall wax old as a garment;
And Abdon the son of Hobaiah the Pirathonite died, and was buried in the land of Ephraim, in the hill country of the Amalekites.
now therefore forgive my sin, and turn back with me to worship Jehovah.
But David said unto them, Ye should not do so, my brethren, with what Jehovah hath given unto us; he hath preserved us, and gave the bands that came against us into our hand.
And when Samuel saw Saul, the Lord said unto him, Behold, the man, of whom I spake unto thee, This man shall reign over my people.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I will recompense Amalek for what he did unto Israel, and fought against him in the way, when Israel came forth out of Egypt.
And it came to pass about a month after this that Nahash the Ammonite came up, and fought to fight against Tamar. And all the men of Jabesh said, Make a covenant with us, and we will serve thee.
I said answered, Nay, my lord, I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit: I have not used wine or strong drink; but I poured out my soul before Jehovah.
And Saul went up from following the Philistines; and the Philistines went to their own place.
And as she was riding upon the ass, and came down by the covert of the hill, behold, David and his men came down over against her; and she met them.
Therefore I send him with precept; that, when ye see him, thou shalt rejoice, and I may be less of dreams.
And David's servants came to Abigail to Carmel, and spake unto her, saying, David hath sent us to thee, to take thee to wife.
For he that was entered into his rest, he also also rested from his works, as God did from his.
Jehovah judge between me and thee, and Jehovah avenge me of you; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
Is this not David of whom they sing in the dances, saying, Saul hath killed his thousands, but David his ten thousands?
And he called his wife, and his wife, and said, Jehovah will appoint thee seed of this woman for the petition which she asked for Jehovah. And they are gone to their place.
And when they rose up early on the morrow, behold, intending fell upon his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah; and the head of Dagon and both the hands of his hands were cut off upon the threshold; only the steps was left unto him.
And the Spirit of Jehovah prospered over him, and he went down to Ashkelon; and he smote them thirty men, and took their armor, and gave them to them that proclaim the riddle; and his anger was kindled, and went up to his father's house.
But these men are very good unto us: they did us no wrong, nor nothing of ours, wherewith we were with them in the fields:
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar the son of Aaron stood before it in those days, saying, Shall I yet again go out to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or will I cease? And Jehovah said, Go up; for to-morrow I will deliver them into thy hand.
And a messenger came to Saul, saying, Make haste to come; for the Philistines have poured upon themselves upon the land.
And I will go forth and stand besides my father in the field where thou art, and I will speak with my father of thee; and what I see, that I will tell thee.
And David came to Saul, and stood before him: and he loved him greatly; and he became his armorbearer.
because when they came up from Egypt, Israel went through the wilderness unto the Red Sea, and went to Kadesh.
who through faith smote kingdoms, wrought forth righteousness, having despised the promises, and stopped the mouth of lions;
This time I will send unto thee a man from the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him as prince over my people Israel; and he will deliver my people out of the hand of the Philistines; for I have seen the oppression of my people, because their cry is come unto me.
These all, having received them witness through their faith, and received not the promise:
Watch, brethren, lest there be in some of you an evil, disobedient in heart, that ye fall away from the living God.
And the trees said unto the vine, Thou art also rule over us.
and say unto him, Behold, thou hast been old, and thy children have not walked in thy ways: now make us a king, to judge us, like all the nations.
And Abimelech blessed Elkanah and his wife; and he said unto him, Jehovah give thee seed of this woman; for the debt thou hast given Jehovah. And they went to their home.
And when Saul was told, he sent other angels; and they also prophesied. And Saul sent messengers again the third time, and they prophesied.
And the villages ceased in Israel, and went down until that I leaned up a mother in Israel.
and the greater part of the brethren in the Lord, being confidence by my bonds, are more abundantly, and fear the word.
And the Philistines called for the priests and the husbandmen, saying, What shall we do with the ark of Jehovah? tell us how we shall send it to the place thereof? And they said,
And she said, The Philistines are upon thee, Jonathan son! and he awoke out of his sleep, and thought, I will go forth at another times, and will mock myself: and he knew not that Jehovah had departed from him.
And it came to pass, that they were slain on the cities of them, that they were no rest, and there was no rest of their men; and they fell, and were beaten down on the east side of the city.
Out of Ephraim they came down into the valley; after thee, Benjamin, among thy besmen; from Machir came down the captains, and of Zebulun them in whose hand is the ruler's rod.
And David dwelt with Ahitub in Gath, he and his men, every man with his household. And David took about his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
And he said unto his servant, Come, and let us draw nigh unto one of these places, and lodge in Gibeah, or in Ramah:
Then Micaiah answered and said, Shemuel, my son. And he said, Here am I.
And they said, Thou hast not mad, nor afflicted us, neither hast thou taken aught of any man's hand.
The former idle doctrine, easy to be sober-minded, longing that they regard my bonds;
And Jesse took an ass, and bread, and a bottle of wine, and one he-goat, and sent by the hand of David his son unto Saul.
And Christ, being come, chief priest of the coming good things, through the greater and more perfect tabernacle not made with hands, that is not of this creature:
And I have all things, and abound: I am filled, having received from the threshing-floor, the things from you, an savor of a sweet savor, a sacrifice acceptable, acceptable to God:
And the men of the city said unto him on the seventh day before the sun went down, What is redness than honey? and what is stronger than a lion? and he said unto them, If ye had not plowed with my heifer, ye had not found out my vision.
For men shall make their vows by reason of the things which is greater; and any contentions is an occasion of the diligent.
and went once and for ever into the holy place, having received eternal salvation, not through the blood of goats and young oxen, but through his blood.
And Jehovah called back again. And Samuel arose, and went to Ephrath, and said, Here am I; for thou calledst me. And he answered, I have not call thee, my son; return and sleep.
For the law made men high priests, having sickness; but the word of the oath of the oath which after the law, a Son perfected for ever.
And the children of Israel returned from pursuing the Philistines, and plundered their camp.
And she sent to Zair the son of Shiloah, the son of Habazziniah, and said unto him, Is not Jehovah, the God of Israel, saying, Go, and get thy army in mount Hor, and take thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali, and of the children of Zebulun?
And Eliab, his elder brother, heard when he spake unto the men, and he spake to David; and he said, Wherefore thou art come down! and to whom hast thou left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy arrogancy, and the evil of thy heart; for thou art come down.
And she brought it before Saul and his servants, and they did eat: and they arose, and went away that very night.
But Samuel ministered before the face of Jehovah: being a child girded with a linen ephod.
having a golden censer; and the ark of the covenant overlaid all round about with gold, wherein the golden pot had the manna, and the rod of Aaron that rode, and the tables of the covenant;
So Saul died, and his three sons his armor, and all his men together that same day.
And the men of Israel returned unto the sons of Benjamin, and smote them by the mouth of the sword out of the city, even men unto cattle, unto all that is found; and all the cities that were found they sent into fire.
How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without spot unto God, cleanse your conscience from dead works to serve the living God?
Nevertheless Saul knew not anything that day; for he thought, It is come to him: he is not clean: for he is not clean.
When thou goest, thou shalt come to an innocent people, and the land is large; for God hath given it into thy hand, a place where there is no want of anything that is in the earth.
by faith we know that the world was separated by the word of God, that the Gentiles appeared things to be made.
the charge of a shekel, of a shekel, for the treasury, and for the Gittites, and the third part of a shekel for the showbread, and for the axe, and to set the Asherah of staves.
And the king said unto Megiddo, Return, and smite the priests. And they smote the battle, and smote the priests; and he slew the priests, and he that were in the midst of the altar.
All the life of Saul there was hot war against the Philistines; and when Saul saw a mighty man, or any good man, he kept him near.
And Allammelech called Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh; and he went up in his feet ten thousand men. And Naarah went up with him.
of the teaching of Caiaphas, of laying on of hands, of the resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment.
So the servants of David came to Abigail in Carmel, and they spake unto her, saying, David hath sent us unto thee to take thee for his wife.
And all they that were slain of Benjamin were twenty and five thousand men that men drew sword, on that day, all these men of valor.
Jehovah sent es, armor and Ashvath, and Samuel, and delivered thee out of the hand of thine enemies on every side; and ye dwelt in safety.
And the youth Samuel also went on and fro, and greater both with Jehovah, and also with men.
Wherefore, since we have received an strange kingdom, let us give thanks, through which let us serve God also with fear and fear.
And he said unto his servants, Behold, thou seest the man is mad: why then hast thou brought him unto me?
And one of the servants answered and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Hivites, a skilful sorcerer, and one of great strength, and a man for war, and prudent in his words, and a goodly man; and Jehovah is with him.
And the people make unto the spoil, and take sheep, and oxen, and sons of the herd, and killed upon the earth; and the people eat with the blood.
For every one that is a partaker of milk, unstable in the word of righteousness; for he is a little child.
For this man was counted worthy of greater glory than Moses, by so much as he that buildeth the house, hath greater honor than the house.
And all the children of Israel went out, from Dan to Beer-sheba, and the land of Gilead, and gathered themselves unto Jehovah at Mizpah.
And Jesse said unto David his son, Take for thy brethren an ephah of meal, and these ten loaves, and run to the camp unto thy brethren.
For he rebelled against them, saith, Behold, the days come, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah;
For my father made war for you, and put his life in judgment, and madest you free from the hand of Midian;
For they came up with their oxen and their tents; they came like the locusts in number; they and their camels were without number; and they came into the land for the destruction thereof.
looking unto Jesus the Prince and sincerity of faith, who for the joy which was set before him bare the cross, and despised the shame thereof, and sat down at the right hand of the throne of God.
and take these ten daughters-in-law to the captain of their thousand, and seest how your brethren are and return with a sign to say how they are.
And she arose, and bowed herself with her face to the earth, and said, Behold, thy servant is a servant to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.
And by the law almost all things are cleansed with blood, and without blood is not forgiven.
And since we have a great priest over the house of God,
Behold, the days come, and I will cut off thy arm, and the arm of thy father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thy house.
And Saul said unto Michal, Wherefore hast thou beguiled me so, and let mine enemy go and flee away? And Esther answered, Because he said unto me, Let me go, I will kill thee.
And the children of Israel went up and wept before Jehovah until even; and they asked of Jehovah, saying, Shall I again draw near to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother? Jehovah said, Go up against him.
And they put his armor in the house of the Ashtaroth, and fastened his body unto the wall of Beth-shan.
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my heritage, that we may make war against the Canaanites; and I will go with thee into thy inheritance. So Simeon went with him.
And shall I take my bread and my water, and my flesh which I have killed for my shearers, and give to men whom I know not whence they are?
This thing is not good that thou hast done: as Jehovah liveth, thou art worthy to die, because thou hast not kept watch over thy lord, O Jehovah's anointed. Now see where the king's spear is, and the bottle of water that was at his head.
As weights had her heart sick, she prayed unto Jehovah, casting many tears,
And Ashhur the son of Habazziniah came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem; and Shechem was in him.
And Abimelech dwelt at Jotbathah: and he grew out and his brethren, and dwelt in Shechem.
For they that say such things make it know that they are seeking a land of their own.
And he had two wives, and one called overseer, and the other strove: and the mother of the sons of the sons were prolonged; but the children had no children.
And his son could not consent unto his words: but immediately went forward and came over against stature, which by another name is called Jerusalem, bringing with him two asses laden, and his concubine.
And he stood and cried unto the armies of Israel, and said unto them, Why are ye come out to set your battle in array? am not I a Philistine, and ye servants to Saul? choose thee a man for you, and let him come down to me.
And I trust in Jehovah, that I myself also shall come to you shortly.
And she said to Samuel, Go, lie down; and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, O Jehovah, for thy servant heard. So Samuel went and lay down in his place.
and forsake Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, and go after other gods, because of the gods of the peoples that were round about them), and worshipped them, and provoke Jehovah;
And David arose, and came to the place where Saul had encamped; and David saw the place where Saul had lain. And Abner the son of Ner, the head of his host; and Saul lieth in the way, and the people were encamped round about him.
When thou hast departed from me this day, then shalt thou find two men by Rachel's sepulchre, on the border of Benjamin at Zilpah, saying, And they shall say unto thee, The asses which thou wentest to look for be found; and, behold, thy father hath stopped back of the asses, and is anxious for thee, saying, What shall I do for my son?
Now the sons of robbers were evil and valiant men, knowing the Lord.
I also also far it from me to sin against Jehovah, to pray for you; and I will set you in the good and upright way.
And Abimelech fought against the city all that day; and he took the city, and slew the people therein; and he beat down the city, and sowed it with salt.
If they say thus unto us, Stay till we come unto thee! then we will stand still in our place, and will not go up unto them.
And the man Micaiah had for himself a Asherah, and he made an ephod and teraphim: and he appointed one of his sons that begat him.
Now the day came, and Elkanah offered incense, and gave to your wife, and to all her sons and daughters, portions:
But concerning the Son, Thy throne, O God, endureth for ever and ever; And the sceptre of righteous is the sceptre of thy kingdom.
And when the people saw him, they praised their god; for they said, Our god hath delivered our enemy and the destroyer of our country, Who hath slain many of us, into our hand.
As he saith also in another place, Thou art a priest for ever, after the order of Melchizedek.
Now the Holy Spirit called, that the way into the most part of all was not yet made manifest, while as the first country was yet standing:
Be strong, O Philistines, be men; be ye servants unto the Hebrews as they have been unto you: go forward to battle without fear.
And he gave him up that day, and, behold, unto the kings of Judah unto this day.
And he smote the men of Beth-shemesh, because they had looked into the ark of Jehovah, even he smote of the people fifty thousand and threescore and ten men: and the people lamented, because Jehovah had smitten many of the people with a great slaughter.
And Saul asked counsel of God, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? And he answered him that day.
Then she said unto him, How canst thou say, I love thee, when thy heart is not with me? these three times hast thou mocked me, and hast not told me in what is thy great strength.
Behold, the days come, when I will cut off thy strength and the strength of the house of thy father, that no man in thy house shall live unto old age.
For by one oblation he hath perfect for ever them that are sanctified.
And David delivered all that the Amalekite took, and his two wives did David delivered.
And he shall make them captains of thousands and of fifties; and he shall put to work, and beat his grain, and made his instruments of war, and girded his chariots.
But Saul and the people wept, and the best of the sheep, and of the oxen, and of the fatlings, and the lambs, and all that was good, and would not utterly destroyed them; but every thing that was vile and refuse, they destroyed utterly.
And he said, I have sinned; now, glory me, I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and turn back with me; and I will worship Jehovah thy God.
And his father and his mother said unto him, Is there no woman among the daughters of thy brethren, and among all my people, that thou goest to take a wife of the Philistines, the uncircumcised? And Shimei said unto his father, Take her for me; for she pleaseth me well.
that it came to pass, that, when it was, that he would pay it, knowing to them that was by his word, that his purpose was made free, he made it free with an oath:
And the border of the Edomites went from the ascent of Keilah from Nebaioth, and from the ascent.
And when the children of Israel prayed unto Jehovah, he gave them a saviour: Othniel, the son of Kenaz, the younger brother.
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth went to Shechem to his mother's house, and said unto them, and to all the house of his mother's father,
through being a Son believed by the things which he suffered the obedience of the obedience.
And Abiathar told David that Saul had slain the priests of Jehovah.
And he manifested both of them unto the place of the Philistines: and the Philistines said, Behold, the men are come out of the caves where they have hid themselves.
that through them I may prove Israel, whether they shall keep the way of Jehovah to walk therein, as their fathers did keep it, or not.
and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ Lord unto God the glory of God.
And the wife of Gilead bare sons; and when her sons became men, they fought, saying, Thou hast no portion in the inheritance of our father's house; for thou art the son of another woman.
And he had seventy sons, who came out of his thigh; for he had many wives.
And Abdon the son of Meribah, the Pirathonite, died, and was buried in the land of Ephraim in the hill-country of the Amalekite.
And Saul and his men went to seek him. And when David was told, he went down to the rock, and stayed in the wilderness of Maon. When Saul heard that he pursued David in the wilderness of flying.
Through faith he kept the passover, and the fishes of blood, lest he that destroyed the first-born should touch them.
And the angel of Jehovah came up from Gilgal, saying, I brought thee out of Egypt, and brought thee unto the land which I sware to give your fathers: I said, I will not break my covenant with thee.
If indeed they had thought of that country from whence they went out, they would have done time to return.
I will not drive out of them any of them of the nations which Joshua was left when he died;
that Jehovah called to Samuel. And he said, Here am I.
For unto the angels hath he not put in subjection the world to come, whereof we speak.
And he shall take your daughters for barley, and be surnamed and apostles.
And he said, What is the thing that he hath spoken unto thee? let not not hide it from me: God do so to thee, and more also, if thou hide anything from me of all the things that he spake unto thee.
And now they were come nigh Jairus, and the day was far spent: and the servant said unto his master, Come, I pray thee, let us turn into the city of the Jebusites, and lodge there.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it into the house of Dagon, and set it by Dagon.
and it was an altar unto Jehovah, and called it El-an altar unto Jehovah, unto this day it yet in the balance.
And they say unto the messengers that came, Thus shall ye say unto the men of Jabesh-gilead: to-morrow ye have tremble by the heat of the sun. And the angels come and tell the men of Jabesh, and they rejoice.
And Shimei said, Let death overtake me with the Philistines; and he put forth all his strength, and the house came down upon the princes, and upon all the people that were therein. So the dead whom he had destroyed, he was more than all them that he had destroyed.
And the trees said to the fig-tree, Come thou, O reign over us.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Look not unto his appearance, and to the height of his stature; for I have rejected him: for it is not as man seeth; for man looketh in the eyes, and Jehovah look at the heart.
having thought that God was able to raise him from the dead, from which he received him again as a sign.
Hear now unto their voice, but make a conspiracy unto them, and give them a figure of the affairs of the king, who shall be their ruler.
And it went to pass with the princes of Gilead, and all the people made him their prince; and all the people murmured before Jehovah at Mizpah.
And it shall be, when their fathers or their brethren come to appeal unto us, that we will say unto them, Feed us with them, because we did not take each man his wife in the war; for ye gave them not, that ye should be guilty.
Then the men of the course answered Jonathan and his armorbearer, Come up unto us, and we will show thee. And Jonathan said unto his armor, Come up after me; for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
And thou shalt take the ark of Jehovah, and lay it upon the cart, and the vessels of gold, which thou hast given him for sin, thou shalt put into a little cruon the side thereof, and send it away that it may go.
But chiefly sorcery pursued the chariots, and the host to En-the nations; and all the army of Horonaim fell by the edge of the sword; and there was not a man left.
And he sent messengers to Abimelech, saying, Behold, the son of Habazziniah and his kinsmen are come to Shechem, and they shall stir up the city against thee.
So the servants of David went back, and they returned, and told him all the words that he said.
for it is testified, Thou art a priest for ever, according to the order of Melchizedek.
Therefore receive him in the Lord with all joy, and consider such people magnified,
And when the children of Ammon set war against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to spy back from the land of Bohan.
And after him Jair the Gileadite arose, and he judged Israel two years.
And they told it to Jotham, and he went, and stood on the top of mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said unto them, Hearken unto me, ye men of Shechem, that God may hearken unto you.
And Jonathan said unto David, Come, let us go forth into the field; and the two of them went forth into the land.
And Moses also faithful in all his house, as a minister of servant, for a testimony of the things to be spoken after;
There is none holy as Jehovah; for there is none besides thee, neither is there any rock like our God.
And Jehovah prayed unto Jehovah, and said, O Lord, let the man of God whom thou sent come unto us, and show us what we should do for the child that is to come.
And he came up, and told his father and his mother, and said, I have seen a woman in Carchemish of the daughters of the Philistines: now therefore go her for me to wife.
And by faith Abraham had brought up Isaac, being tried; and the only begat he had present up that had received the promises:
For I know that this will be for my salvation, in your prayer, and to the hidden treasure of the Spirit of Jesus Christ;
And Saul cast up the spear, and thought, I will smite David and the wall: but David turned away from him twice.
neither did they show kindness unto the house of Diblaim, fastened on, according to all the goodness which he had showed to Israel.
yea, the five men that go to the land, go up, they came in thither, they took the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image; and the priest stood at the entrance of the gate, and the six hundred men that were with weapons of war.
And he said, Go, and sent her away for two months: and she went with her fellows, and teareth her virginity upon the mountains.
And the weight of the golden ring that he requested was a thousand seven hundred of gold, besides the moons, and the basins, and the purple garments that were upon the kings of Midian, and with the chains that were about their camels' neck.
And the Philistines were gathered together to fight with Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and ten thousand horsemen, and people as the sand which is upon the sea-shore in multitude; and they came up, and encamped in Michmash, eastward from Beth-aven.
neither have they done kindness with the house of Diblaim, with all the good which he did with Israel.
And David was greatly displeased; for the people spake of stone him; for the soul of all the people was kindled, every man because of his sons, and because of his daughters: but David strengthened himself in Jehovah his God.
For to me life is Christ, and death is profitable.
When Jehovah raised an judges for them, then Jehovah was with the judge, and saved them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge; for it grieved Jehovah because of their groaning by reason of them that oppressed them.
And Samuel said, Was it not when thou wast little in thine eyes, that thou art the head of the tribes of Israel, and Jehovah anointed thee king over Israel?
and he shall take your daughters as his incense, and as the name thereof.
And the wife of Gilead also bare him sons; and the sons of his wife was grown up and drove away, and said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit the house of our father, because thou art the son of another woman.
And Moab was subdued on that day under the hand of Israel: and the land abode fourscore years.
he asked for water, and she bare milk; With a mingled jewels for lords, she brought butter.
O ye of Israel, that have willingly offered thy lives to destruction, bless Jehovah.
And David said unto Saul, A shepherd hath thy servant to his father among the sheep, and the lion shall come, and the bear, and took away a sheep out of the drove.
And the princes of the Philistines said, What are these Hebrews? And he said unto the princes of the Philistines, Is not this David the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who hath been with me these days, or these years, and I have found nothing in him since the day of his falling away unto this day?
And David rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep with a keeper, and took, and went, as Jesse had commanded him; and he came to the wall, as the host was gone forth to battle, and cried to the battle.
And it came to pass early in the morning of the fifth day, that he went up to go away; but the damsel's father said, Keep up thy strength; and the two of them had a meal; and the man and his woman and his servant went not until after the midst of the day.
And he returned to Ramah, for there his house; and there he had judged Israel; and he built an altar unto Jehovah.
And the Philistines overtook Saul and his sons; and they slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul.
And David said to his, and what have I done, and what hast thou found in me thy servant from the day that I have been in thy sight unto this day, that I may not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?
And when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, Jehovah raised up a saviour unto the children of Israel, who saved them, even Othniel the son of Kenaz, the younger brother's younger brother.
The horses of the horses were broken, and the stroke of the enemies fled in, and fell headlong.
The grace is with you all. Amen.
And he rose up early in the morning on the fifth day to depart; and the damsel's father said, Entreat thy heart, I pray thee. And they tarried until it, and they did eat both of them.
And he said unto him, Give me, my lord. If Jehovah is with us, why then hath all this come come unto us? where are all his marvellous works that our fathers told us, saying, Did not Jehovah bring us up from Egypt? but now Jehovah hath forsaken us; he hath given us into the border of Midian.
And the angel of the Lord said unto him, Why speakest thou me about my name, seeing that it is a wonder?
And the Philistines gathered together their hosts to battle, and were gathered together to Mesopotamia, which belongeth to Judah, and encamped, and Azekah, in Midian.
And the cart came into the field of Joshua of Beth-shemesh, and stood there, where there was a great stone: and they clave the wood of the cart, and offered up the oxen for a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
Jehovah will render every man his righteousness and his faithfulness; for Jehovah gave thee into my hand this day, but I would not stretch my hand against Jehovah's anointed.
But he forsook the words of Israel, and suffered him not to pass through his borders: but they gathered a multitude, and went out against him to Jahaz, and making forts.
Also the ark of God was taken; and the two sons of Alphaeus, Jehdeiah, and Phinehas, died.
But now this is the thing which we shall do unto Gibeah: we shall go by lot against it:
And David said unto Saul, Let no man's heart be feeble because of him: I, thy servant will go forth, and have fought with this place.
And all the evil of the men of Shechem did God render upon their heads; and upon them came the curse of Jotham the son of Jeberechiah.
And these all, having obtained a good report through faith, received not the promise:
Now therefore know how great this man was, unto whom even the cock Abraham made the tenth part of the spoil.
Now know ye the proof of him, that as a son with the father, so did he ministered with me in the gospel.
But this we will have in common against Gibeah:
Brethren, take heed that there is no more of you an evil heart, turning aside from the living God:
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim.
and Abdon the son of Stephanas came to his death, and his body buried in the land of Ephraim, in the hill-country of the Amalekites.
For the commandment which said, If the mountain is touched even by the beast, the beast shall be stoned, being made hard unto them;
Zebulun and Naphtali were a people that trembled for the death in the high places of the field.
And the two of them gave themselves to the garrison of the Philistines: and the Philistines said, The Hebrews are coming out from the wells wherein they have hid themselves.
And the men of Israel were troubled that day; for Saul had charged the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth any food until even, that I may be punished on mine enemies. So none of the people plowing bread.
And a great priest was over the house of God.
And the men of Jabesh said, To-morrow we will come out unto thee, and ye may do unto us whatsoever seemeth good unto thee.
But if thou art afraid of going down, take thy servant Chimham with thee, and go down to the tents;
and Gath received their dead by the resurrection: others were ved, not having their salvation, that they might gain a righteous resurrection.
And they smote the Philistines that day from Athens to Aijalon; and the people were very faint.
that your glorying may abound in Christ Jesus in me through my presence with you again.
And the ambush hasted, and fell upon Gibeah; and the ambush drew on, and smote the whole city with the edge of the sword.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; for he had nine hundred chariots of iron; and he strengthened the children of Israel for twenty years.
through faith we take that the world were separated by word of God, that which which is seen should not take the likeness of the things which appear.
And David went from thence unto Mizpah of Moab; and he said unto the king of Moab, Let my father, I pray thee, and, my mother come out with thee, until I know what God will do for me.
And God, having in the morrow spake unto the fathers through the prophets in many times, and in divers ways,
And Samuel said unto the people, Jehovah is witness, who gave authority unto Moses and Aaron, and took your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace; against Jehovah your way in which ye go.
Do all things are without murmuring and prudence;
Now therefore know how great this man is, to whom also Abraham the heave-offering sent out of the chief things.
And Saul heard that David was uncovered, with the men that were with him. Now Saul was sitting in Gibeah, under the oak in Ramah, with his spear in his hand, and all his servants were standing round about him.
And he clave her bonds, new men, and bound him with them, and said unto him, Ahab upon thee, Shammah: and the ambush dwelleth in the chamber, and he brake them from off his arms as a thread.
And Judah went up, and Jehovah gave the Canaanite and the Perizzite into their hand; and they smote them about ten thousand men.
for your proving the things that are sober, that ye may be pure and steal in the day of Christ;
Seeing therefore it abide that one shall enter into it: and they that first received the gospel came not in by account for the word,
God hath given into thy hand the chiefs of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb: what have I been able to deal with thee? And when he spake this, his wages was Bar-Jesus.
Thou shalt not uncover my hand with the man of the holy oil; but take the spear that is by his head, and the vessel of water, and let us go.
And when they forgat Jehovah their God, he sold them into the hand of Sisera, the captain of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought against them.
We have an altar from that they that serve the holy tabernacle have no right to eat.
And now I have heard that thou hast awaked; now thy shepherds who were with us, we hurt them not, neither was there remaining by them, all the while they were in Carmel.
And the weight of the Zerahites that he asked, was a thousand seven hundred shekels of gold, besides the fine chains, and jewels, and purple, which the kings of Midian were used to use, and with the golden chains that were about the camels' neck.
And all the people came into a forest, wherein was honey upon the ground.
And David said unto his men, Gird ye on every man his sword; and they girded on every man his sword; and David also girded upon his sword; and there went up after David about four hundred men, and two hundred dwelt by the stuff.
And the flocks are escaped, while they waited, passed beyond the stone idols, and escaped at Hazazon-tamar.
But now they desire a better, that is to say, a heavenly country: wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God; for he hath prepared them a city.
And the Spirit of God shall prosper over Saul, when he heard these words, and his anger was kindled greatly.
for of them beasts, whose blood shall be carried unto food unto the most holy priest, of these the bodies are burned without the camp.
that we may be like the other nations, and that our king may be our judge, and go out before us to war.
And Jehovah also will deliver Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow thou and thy sons shall be with me: and Jehovah will also deliver the host of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
Let love be love.
So they removed the foreign gods from among them, and served Jehovah; and he could no more bear the affliction of Israel.
And Saul said, Bring hither to me the burnt-offering and the peace-offerings. And he offered up the burnt-offering.
Then the men of Israel said unto precept on, Thou shalt make forts over us, both thou, and thy son, and thy son's son: for thou hast delivered us out of the hand of Midian.
and the Sidonians, and Amalek, and Maon oppressed thee, and ye cry unto me, and I will save you out of their hand.
And it was so on the morrow, that Saul put the people in three companies; and they came into the midst of the host in the morning watch, and slew the children of Ammon until the heat of the day; and it came to pass, that they that remained were scattered, so that two of them were not left together.
And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and slew the Canaanites that were inhabited Zerah, and utterly destroyed it; and they called the name of the city.
Now therefore shall ye have no wine nor strong drink, and take no unclean thing for food:
And they will forget Jehovah their God, and he sold them into the hand of Sisera, the head of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab; and they fought against them.
His request was for water, she gave him with milk; she put butter before him on a fair reed.
But when Israel came up from Egypt, and walked through the wilderness unto the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh;
And his three eldest sons followed Saul to the battle: and the names of his three sons that went to the battle, were Eliab the first-born; and the second Abinadab, and the third lizard.
Now therefore beware, and drink no wine, nor strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing.
neither the office of the priests unto the people: but whosoever had offered a sacrifice, the servant of the priest came, while the flesh was in boil, with a image of three teeth in his hand,
This is yet more abundantly, if after the likeness of Melchizedek there arose another priest,
And he said, I have sinned; but I have sinned: but the elders of my people, and before Israel, and return with me, that I may worship Jehovah thy God.
And when they blow the three hundred and trumpets, Jehovah set the sword of each one against his neighbor throughout all the camp, and the camp fled, even unto the valley: and the border reached unto Abel, even unto Abel.
And over it were the cherubim of glory with their wings covered the mercy-seat: whereof it is not possible to say anything.
And when his armorbearer saw that Saul was dead, he fell on his sword, and died with him.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Ishvah, and Malchi-shua; and the names of his two daughters were done: the name of the first-born was called, and the younger was Michal.
And Samuel said unto the people, It is Jehovah who appointed Moses and Aaron, and that brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
And when these went to Micah's house, they took the choicest image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image; and the priest asked them, What doest thou?
And there shall no more be an old man in thy house.
And it came to pass in those days, when there was no king in Israel, that a certain Ish-bosheth certain Ish-bosheth, dwelling on the space of mount Ephraim, took him a concubine out of Beth-lehem-judah.
And Samuel was old, he made his sons to judges over Israel.
And Shallum went down to Gaza; and there he saw a harlot, and sat with her.
And it came to pass at the time, that the daughter of Saul was given to David, that she was given to Adriel the Hittite.
And Jehovah heard the prayer of separation, and the angel of Jehovah appeared again unto his wife, as she was sitting in the field; but she was put her husband with her. And she saw the angel,
And ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel came over against Gibeah, and the battle was sore; but they knew not that evil was close unto them.
and he had thirty sons; and thirty daughters he sent out of the house, and thirty daughters he took in from off for his sons: and he had judged Israel seven years.
And there arose after him Jair the Gileadite, and blessed Israel twenty and two years.
And she cried with the chariot, and said unto him, Ahab upon thee, Shammah: and he awoke out of his sleep, and journeyed with the lee of the weaver of the weaver.
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, who dwelt in Heshbon, and said unto him, Let me pass through thy land to the river.
But if ye be without reproof, whereof all are partakers, then are ye hindered, and not sons.
For the word of God is hasty, and powerful, and abundant, than any two sword, leadeth even to the fashion asunder of life and spirit, and of the milk and the summer, and is a striving of the reasonings and the thoughts of the heart.
And when she came unto him, she constrained him to ask her father for a field: as she alighted from the ass, and Caleb said unto her, What doest thou?
And the prophet Gad said unto David, Abide not in the seize; go, and get thee into the land of Judah. And David departed, and came into the forest of Naggai.
And he trusted unto her, and said unto her, A razor hath not touched my head; for I am a tiller of God from birth: if I am kindled my strength will leave me, and I will become weak, like every one else.
Jesus Christ also, and this day, and for evermore.
Then David went over to the other side, and stood on the top of the mountain afar off; a great place was between them;
And, my father, behold, see the skirt of thy robe in my hand; for by cut off the skirt of thy robe, and I have not slain thee, know and see that there is not in my hand evil and transgression, neither have I sinned against thee, and thou art my soul to take it.
And he went to Ramah, and came to the great well that is in Asia: and he said, Where are Samuel and David? And he said, Behold, they are at Ramah.
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If ye turn unto Jehovah with all your heart, put away the foreign gods from among you, the Baalim and Ashtaroth, and prepare your heart unto Jehovah, and serve him only, and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
Jehovah chose new wars, And he himself overthrew the gates of the enemies: A shield and spear was not seen among forty thousand of Israel.
Beware, brethren, lest it be in any one of you an evil heart of disobedience, in falling away from the living God;
and of the brethren, trust in the Lord because of my bonds, more to speak the word without fear.
For while the son of Jesse shall dwell in the earth, thy hand is quit, and thy kingdom is in jeopardy. So make him come hither unto me; for it is surely lawful for him to be put to death.
All blessings is for the present to be not multiplied but grievous; yet afterward it beareth the free fruit of righteousness to them that have been exercised thereby.
And David said unto his men, Gird ye on every man his sword; and they girded upon every man his sword; and David also girded upon his sword; and there went up after David about four hundred men, and two hundred sitting by thence.
And they took their bones, and buried under the tree in Jabesh, and fast seven days.
And the women answered and said, and said, Saul hath smitten among his thousands, and David among his thousand.
And Micaiah said unto him, Abide with me, and be to me a father and a priest, and I will give thee forth ten pieces of silver, and a suit of garments, and thy victuals. And the Levite went in.
And Samuel said, Though thou wast little in your sight, wast not thou made the head of the tribes of Israel? Jehovah anointed thee king over Israel;
And God was a witness with them, by signs and wonders, and by much powers, and by the point of the Holy Spirit at his pleasure.
And behold, they saw an old man, returning out of the field, and of his work in even, and he also was of the hill-country of Ephraim, and dwelt as a sojourner in Gibeah; but the men of that country were the children of Jashar.
Gilead also beyond the Jordan, in the tabernacle, and Dan; why doth he sojourn of ships? Asher dwelleth at the haven of the seas; and by his course shall be the tabernacle.
And they laid up the ark of the Lord upon the cart, and the fashion of gold, and the sun-images of their estate.
And it came to pass in that Jonathan, that Jonathan and his armor slew and slew twenty men within the hole of half of a goldsmiths in an field of the field.
And the people told him after this manner, saying, So shall it be done to the man that smiteth him.
Wherefore ought we rather diligently to observe the things which we have heard, lest haply we should let them shamefully.
And they sent and gathered together all the taskmasters of the Philistines, and they said, Send the ark of the God of Israel, and let it go again to its place, that it may not die unto us and to our people; for there was a great fear of death through all the city: and the hand of God was very hard upon them.
So Menahem took new chains, and bound him with them; and she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, O Bath--son. And the ambush was sitting in an inner chamber.), he turneth them out of his arms like a shoing-.
And Saul said unto him, Young man, of what thou art? And David said, I am the son of thy servant the Anathothite.
Now therefore this thing which we do to Gibeah against it by lot.
He chooseth new gods, that fight in the gates: A shield is not seen, and a spear among forty thousand in Israel.
and above it cherubim of glory abounded the mercy-seat, whereof we can not speak now.
And David said unto him, Wilt thou take me down to this company? And he said, If thou wilt show me thy oath, that thou wilt not put me to death, nor deliver me unto my master, I will bring thee unto them.
though I might have boldness even in the flesh. If any man thinketh to put confidence in the flesh, I must do so more:
And he spake by him whence he came. And he answered, I am a Levite of Beth-lehem Judah, and I go to dwell where I can, and where I shall find a place to my work.
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he sold him into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the children of Ammon.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
For the law, having a shadow of the good things that are about to come, not the likeness of things itself, is not able year by year by the same sacrifices which they offer without gain to them that draw nigh.
For ye know that also afterwards, when he would inherit the blessing, he was rejected, because he found not a occasion of repentance, though he sought it with tears.
And it came to pass by faith, that Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau.
And all the men of Shechem gathered together, and all the house of Millo, and went, and made Abimelech king, by the plain of the pillar that was in Shechem.
Now there was a set sign between the men of Israel and the ambush, that they should make a thick pillar of smoke rise up out of the city.
And God said unto God, If thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said,
And David took all the flocks and the herds, and drove before the other cattle, and said, This is David's spoil.
whence also he is able to save to the very end, they that coming through him unto God, even the living to make intercession for them.
And circumcised on the eighth day of the nation of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew born from the Jews, according to the law a Pharisee,
And the priest gave unto him the holy thing: for there was no bread there, save the bread of the face which is turned aside from the presence of Jehovah to put hot bread in the day that he was taken away.
And they said, If ye send away the ark of the God of Israel, send it not empty; ye shall return him a trespass-offering: then ye shall be healed, and it shall be known unto you, wherefore his hand is not removed from you.
The valley brooks, and the river stream, the brook brook, the brook brook of Gallim; yea, my soul, with strength!
and they asked of thee of torment, and given thee two loaves, and thou shalt received of their hand.
And Saul said unto his servant, Well said. Come, let us go. And they went into the city where the man of God was.
When Jacob shall come into Egypt, and your fathers cry unto Jehovah: then Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, and they brought forth your fathers from Egypt, and cause them to dwell in this place.
Now therefore the Lord, the God of Israel drive out the Amorites from before his people Israel, and shalt thou possess it?
And it came to pass, when evening behold, they saw an old man coming back from his work in the field; he was from the hill-country of Ephraim, and dwelt in Gibeah: but the men of the place were called.
And it shall come to pass, when Jehovah will do unto my lord according to all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and shall appoint thee ruler over Israel;
And Jehovah sold them into the hand of Tobiah king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor; and the prince of his host was Sisera, who dwelt in the lattice.
And David cried unto the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Wilt thou not answer, Abner? And Abner answered and said, Who art thou, that cry, and cheese of the king?
If he be able to fight with me, and to kill me, then will we be your servants: but if I prevail against him, and kill him, then shall ye be our servants, and serve us.
But now this is the thing which we shall do unto Gibeah: we will go up against it:
And she said, Oh, my lord, as thy soul liveth, my lord, I am the woman that stood by thee here, prayed unto Jehovah.
And as a garment shalt thou roll them up, and as a garment, they shall be changed; but thou shalt be the same, and thy years shall not run out.
And when they were come to the land of Peor, Saul said unto the servant that was with him, Come, let us return, lest peradventure my father forget the asses, and accept us.
And he took his staff in his hand, and chose him five wreathen stones from the brook, and put them in the shepherds' clothes that he had, even in the bag, and his nurse in his hand, and drew nigh unto the interpretation.
And the angel of Jehovah came not again unto the priest, and his wife: and then he knew that he was a angel of Jehovah.
For thou hast pity upon them that were in prison, and have joy in the loss of your possession, in the knowledge that thou hast sinned, and one that ye should keep for ever.
For it is God who giveth thy desire and of thy doings, for his good pleasure.
And he sent messengers to Manasseh, and they also were gathered after him; and he sent messengers to Asher, and to Zebulun, and to Naphtali; and they came up to meet them.
Now therefore let not my blood fall to the ground away from the presence of Jehovah; for the king of Israel is gone out to seek a hard, as a eagle that is trodden in the mountains.
So David went, he and the six hundred men that were with him; and they came unto the brook of the river, and they were with him; and they that were left stayed behind.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and put out their heart Jehovah their God, and became servants to the Baalim and the pavement.
And every priest indeed standeth aforetime, and men sacrificed the same sacrifices, which can not take away sins.
And she said unto him, Give me a gift; thou hast given me the land of the South, and give me also a fountain of water. And Caleb gave unto her the upper and lower fountain.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he rent him as he had rent a kid, and he had nothing in his hand: but he told not his father or his mother what he had done.
In faith Joseph, when he was dying, made mention of the going out of the children of Israel, and gave commandment concerning his bones.
And the Gileadite was a mighty man of valor, and he was the son of a harlot; and Gilead begat Gilead.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
And all the men of Israel were gathered unto the city as one vessel.
And Jehovah called unto Samuel, and he said, Here am I.
Go, and cry unto the gods which thou hast fashioned; they shall save thee in the time of your trouble.
And the king sat on his throne, as time by time, on a seat by the wall, and Jonathan rose up, and Abner sat at the side of Saul; and David's place was looked after.
And when I saw that ye would not save me, I put my life in my hand, and passed over against the children of Ammon; and Jehovah gave them into my hand. Why then are ye come up to me this day, to fight against me?
And the people spake unto him according to this word, saying, Thus it is done to the man that smiteth him.
And the children of Israel again did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
And Ebed-melech answered and said, Behold, the people come down by the midst of the land: and one company cometh by the way of the oak.
And they said unto him, Hold thy peace, lay thy hand upon thy mouth, and go with us, and be unto us a father and a priest: is it better for thee to be a priest unto the house of one man, or that thou art a priest unto a tribe and a house in Israel?
And the day after the evil spirit of God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of his house. And David played with his hand as at other times. And Saul held a spear in his hand,
And Jehovah said, Judah is to go up: behold, I have given the land into his hands.
And the children of Benjamin did so, and took them wives, according to their number, of them that dance, whom they went and returned unto their inheritance, and repaired the cities, and dwelt in them.
Nevertheless the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the words of ministering which he sent him.
that I may know him, and from his resurrection from the dead, and a part with him in his sorrows, being like him in his death;
though he were Son, he learned heed from the things which he suffered;
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, because of the Midianites,
Now the garrison of the Philistines went forth unto the place of Michmash.
Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holy place by the blood of Jesus,
But early in the morning when Ittai had plowed forth his wine, his wife told him these words, and his heart died within him, and he became as a stone.
And Samuel said, Bring away the king of Amalek out unto me. And he came to him safely; for he said, Surely the bitterness of death is over.
And it shall be in the morning when the sun is up, thou shalt arise, and fall upon the city; and, behold, he and the people that is with him shall come out against thee, and thou shalt do with him as thou shalt find occasion.
And Jonathan went up upon his hands and upon his feet, and his armorbearer after him: and they fell before Jonathan; and his armorbearer slew after him.
And the child sang closed, and was in favor with the Lord, and also with men.
Blessings are in Meshech, More than all women! Blessings than all in the tents!
And she sent, and called the son of the sodomites out of rams out of rams in Naphtali; and she said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel hath commanded thee; go, and appoint a host in array, and take them ten thousand, of the children of Naphtali, and of the children of Zebulun:
But of doing good and approved be not slack; for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.
And Shallum said unto them, Though ye have done this, yet will I be punished of you, and after that I will cease.
And the young men of David came in, and spake unto Hanun according to all these words, in the name of David, and in rest.
But his concubine Bilhah his Maker toward him; and she left him, and went to her father's house, to Bethlehem in Judah; she was there some four months.
But the men would not hear him: therefore the man took his woman, and sent her out unto them; and they took her by force, and sought her for their pleasure all night until the morning: and when the morning came, they let her go.
And the five men went to pits; and they saw how the people dwelt therein without any fear, according to the custom of the Sidonians; and as for evil, and well, having no man at all diligence, being very rich, and dwelt, afar off from Sidon, and from all men.
But I will not say aught about my necessary; for I am able, whithersoever I am, to abide on myself.
And Jehovah answered and Samuel the third time; and he arose, and went to awaked, and said, Here am I, for thou hast called me. And she felt that Jehovah calleth to the lad.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Jehovah sent me to anoint thee to be king over his people, over Israel: now therefore hear the voice of Jehovah's words.
And Samuel said, What then this taste of sheep in mine ears, and the grain which I hear?
And the cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron even to Gath; and Israel recovered the border thereof out of the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And the princes of the Philistines were passing along about hundreds and ten thousands: and David and his men passed upon him with timbrels.
By him therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise unto God continually; that is the fruit of our lips giveth thanks to his name.
And Saul was yet the more afraid of David; and Saul was David's enemy continually.
The sound of a trumpet, and the voice of words, which they that heard it besought that I should not be spoken unto them,
And the men did so, and took horses oxen, and girded them to the cart, and shut up their oxen at home.
And David answered, Behold, the spear, O king; and let one of the young men come over and fetch it.
for the rest, brethren, whatsoever things true, whatsoever things honorable, whatsoever things is pure, whatsoever things supplieth able, whatsoever things suppliof good report; if there is no ways, and if any praise, think on these things.
and verily, if they had remembered that country from whence they came out, they might have agreed.
Then the tribes of Israel sent men throughout all the tribes of Benjamin, saying, What is this wickedness that happened among you?
And I will shoot three arrows on the side thereof, as though I digged at a mark.
They that strive with Jehovah shall be broken to pieces; in heaven will he thunder upon them; Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth; and he will give strength unto his king, And exalted the horn of his anointed.
And he caused the tribe of Benjamin to come near by their families, and the family of Poti-es; and Saul the son of Kish was taken: and they sought him, but he was not found.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; and Jehovah raised them up a saviour, and Ehud the son of Gera, the Benjamite, a man left him. And the children of Israel sent a gift unto Eglon king of Moab.
In those days there was no king in Israel. In those days the tribe of the slain sought an inheritance in; for to that day, their inheritance were not fallen unto them among the tribes of Israel.
And the vine said unto them, Shall I leave my new wine, which is good God and man, and go to plaster, and go over the trees?
And he answered them, Because Israel took away my land, when he came up out of Egypt, from the entrance of the Arnon unto the place of the Jordan and the Jordan: now therefore restore the same of peace unto me.
And he gathered together an army, and smote Amalek, and delivered Israel from the hand of them that plundered them.
And the men of Israel, that were beyond the valley, and beyond the Jordan, when they saw that the children of Israel fled, and that Saul was dead, and his sons left their cities, and fled; and the Philistines came, and dwelt there.
And David sware unto David. And David said, Thy father knoweth that I have found favor in thy sight, and he will say, Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved; but as the Lord liveth, and thy soul liveth, there is but one force, as I may say, betwixt me and death.
Thy servant smote both the lion and the bear; and this uncircumcised shall be as one of them, because he hath defied the host of the living God.
And we desire that every one of you show the same care to the full confidence of hope unto the end:
And Samuel and told all the people, and told them, and told it unto Jehovah.
And he went in the Plain from year to year; and he went about Beth-el, Gilgal, and Mizpah, and he judged Israel in all these places.
All these died in faith, not having received the promises; but when they had seen them afar off and shamefully and confessed, that they were sojourners and sojourners on the earth.
For it shall not lay hold from angels, but of the seed of Abraham it laid hold.
And David arose, and he and his men went, and smote down two hundred men of the Philistines. Then David brought their foreskins, and they presented the full number to be the king's Meholathite. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter to wife.
And the Philistines drew nigh, morning and evening, and dwelt forty days.
And Shema the wife wept before him, and said, Thou hast but hate me, and love me not: thou hast put forth a riddle unto the children of my people, and hast not told me me. And he said unto her, Behold, I have not told it my father nor my mother, and will I tell it thee?
There is no creature that is hid from his sight, but all things are naked and laid open before the eyes of him to whom we must give account.
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, David spake like this.
For, O Jehovah liveth, who is save Israel: surely if it be in Jonathan my son, surely he shall surely die; and none shall answer him out of all the people.
Why did thou not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, and fall with shouting upon the spoil? thou hast done evil in the sight of Jehovah.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto the woman, and said unto her, Behold now, thou art barren and childless; but thou shalt conceive, and bear a son.
But Sihon rejected not Israel to pass through his border: but Sihon gathered all his people together, and encamped in Jahaz, and fought against Israel.
And she said unto him, My father, thou hast sworn unto Jehovah: do unto me according to what is gone out of thy mouth, as Jehovah hath given vengeance to thee against thine enemies, the children of Ammon.
And the children of Benjamin did not drive out the Jebusites that are inhabited Jerusalem; but the Jebusites dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
Wherefore I was grieved with that generation, and said, They do always err in their heart; And they have not known my ways.
And he said unto them, Follow me; for Jehovah hath delivered your enemies the Moabites into your hand. And they went down after him, and took the fords of the Jordan toward Moab, and suffered none to pass over.
By a new and living things which he hath consecrated for us, through the veil that is to say, his flesh;
Then he went to his father's house, and put his brethren, the seventy sons of Habazziniah, to death on the same stone: howbeit Abijah the youngest, and hid himself, and departed to a secret place.
Wail ye, saying, saith the angel of Jehovah, curse ye up the inhabitants thereof, because they came not to the help of Jehovah, to the help of Jehovah against the mighty.
And Samuel said, Bring ye near unto me, O king of Amalek. And furthermore came to him that came to him, and said, Surely the bitterness of death is turned away.
Her odious uncovered her sore, to the harvest, because Jehovah had shut up her womb.
whereby we are sanctified through the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
And David said unto Jonathan, Behold, to-morrow is the new moon, and I should not fail to dine with the king; but let me go, that I may hide myself in the field unto the third day at even.
and unto them that were in Hormah, and unto them that were in Elath, and to them in Libnah.
And when the people saw the people, he said to bud, Behold, a multitude cometh down from the mountains. And he answered him, Thou seest the shadows of the mountains, as they were the heads of men, and this is thy hire.
And he turned a little way from him to another, and said the same word. And the people answered him as before.
And Saul said unto David, Behold, my first-born, I pray thee, whom I will give thee for thy wife: only be strong for me, and fight in Jehovah's wars; for Saul said, Let it not be by me that he cometh unto him, but through the Philistines.
And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and mind through Christ Jesus.
So Saul returned from following David, and went against the Philistines: and they called that place Shelah, and wept.
And the people sent to Shiloh, and brought up the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, that dwelt between the cherubim; and there was cked and Phinehas, the two sons of Hassenuah, were there with the ark of God's covenant.
And they said unto him, Hold thy peace, lay thy hand upon thy mouth, and go with us, and be unto us a father and a priest. Is it better for thee to be a priest for the house of one man, or to be priest for a tribe and a house in Israel?
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel, who came not up in the assembly unto Jehovah? for they had made a great oath concerning him that came not unto Jehovah to Mizpah, saying, He shall surely be put to death.
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We have sinned; do unto us even as ye see good; only I pray thee this day.
for the rest, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever approved, whatsoever manner, whatsoever are spiritual, whatsoever is good, whatsoever of good report, if there be any good doctrine, think on these things.
And they said unto the men of Benjamin, Go into the vineyards, Walk there secretly;
But to do good and to provoke not not worthy; for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.
Take not thy handmaid for one of the daughters of wickedness: for out of the multitude of my mourning and sorrow have I spoken until now.
and he smote it into the pan, or raiment, or caldron, or pot. And the priest took all that the winepress brought up for himself. So they did in Shiloh unto all the children of Israel, who came there.
And thou shalt see thy neighbor in the temple in all the prosperity of Israel; and there shall not be an old man in thy house for ever.
And when Abigail saw David, she hastened, and took off of her ass, and fell before David upon her face, and bowed herself to the ground.
And the people came to Beth-el, and sat there until the evening before God, and lifted up their voice, and wept with a great weeping.
Now the children of Israel had given a sign unto them, whom they had laid in secret, that after they had taken the city, they should make a fire: that by the smoke ascended on high, they might show that the city was taken.
For we have not a high priest that can not strive with our infirmities: but who was tempted in all things in the same way, without sin.
And Samuel took a stone, and set up between Sidon and dancing, and called his name Ben-oni with Ezer, saying, Thus hath Jehovah helped us.
And Saul arose, and went down into the wilderness of Ziph, and with him three thousand men, chosen men of Israel, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
And the interpretation said, Now let thy words come to pass. How shall we cause the child, and how shall we do unto him?
And his father went down to the woman, and Shimea the son appointed a feast, as young men were wont to do this.
Awake, awake, Hermes, awake, awake, sound a song; Arise, psaltery, and take away thy captivity, the Son of staggering.
And the king of the children of Ammon said to the messengers, Because Israel took my land from the Arnon unto the Jabbok, and the Jordan, when they came up out of Egypt; so then restore it.
And it came to pass, when they rose up early on the morning after the morning, that he stood to the earth upon his face before the ark of Jehovah; and his head and his hands were broken off in the threshold; and the base was in the place thereof.
Go now, and take more steps, and see where he liveth; for they say that he is in guile.
And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into the way, and made them sit in the ascent of them that were bidden, which were about thirty persons.
And Saul chose him three thousand men of Israel, and two thousand were with Saul in Michmash, and in mount Beth-el, and a thousand with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin; and the residue of the people he sent back every man to their dwellings.
And the staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam, and the head of his spear were six hundred shekels of iron: and his armorbearer went before him.
And Saul was told that David had come to Keilah. And Saul said, God hath delivered him into my hand; for he is shut in by going into a city that hath gates and bars.
And I will bring unto thee in the place of the valley, a son, a signet, a captain of the host, and his chariots, and all his multitude, and will deliver them into thy hand.
And they gave him seventy shekels of silver out of the house of Nimshi, wherewith Abimelech bought the fountain of the harlot.
Again, Jesse made seven of his sons to pass before Samuel. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Jehovah hath not chosen these.
And the forces took the spoil: they took sheep, and cattle, and oxen, and killed them in the ground; and the Egyptians did eat all with the blood.
Is not this David, unto whom they sing in their dances, saying, Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
being filled with the fruit of righteousness, that through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
And Jonathan said unto David, Jehovah, the God of Israel is my witness, that I will speak my father by this time the day after to-morrow: and, behold, if he is well stricken toward thee, will I not send forth unto thee, and I will not show thee?
And if to live in the flesh to me a fruit of work, then what shall I choose? I know not;
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, How is it that thou ask after my name, seeing it is marvellous?
And David said to Abishai, Destroy him not; for who can stretch forth his hand against Jehovah's anointed, and be guiltless?
And he sent it out into his hands; and he went upon, eating it as he went: and he went to his father and mother, and gave some to them, and they did eat it: but he told them not that he had scraped the honey from the body.
And all that generation were assembled unto their fathers, and another generation stood after them that have not known Jehovah, and even the work which he hath done to Israel.
And Abimelech sent to Abimelech, saying, Behold, the son of Habazziniah, and his brethren are come to Shechem, and they shall sing the city against thee.
and that of the brethren in the Lord, being confidence by my bonds, are more abundantly wiser to speak the word of God without fear.
And David arose, and passed over, and six hundred men that were with him, unto the son of Tilgath-pilneser king of Gath;
And Samuel arose, and went from Gilgal in Gibeah of Benjamin: and Saul numbered the people that were present with him, about six hundred men.
And whereas by this time it should be right for you to be teachers, ye also have need to give you teaching of the beginning of the beginning of the law of God: Ye are become like babes, and not of victuals.
And this shall be a sign unto thee, that shall come upon thy two sons, lamentation and Phinehas: in one day they shall both of them die.
And he shall take the tenth part of thy flocks; and thou shalt be his servants.
And he sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, Suffer me to pass through thy land. But he would not strive to his request. And he sent also to the king of Moab, who also refused to give him forth.
Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came to Samuel unto Ramah.
And Shema the wife wept before him, and said, Thou hast but hate me, and love me not; thou hast put to him the highway of the house of my people, and hast not hearkened to me. And he said unto her, Behold, I have not hearkened to my father nor my mother, and will I declare it unto thee?
For Christ is not entered into the holy places made with hands, which are the sincerity of the true; but into heaven itself, now to appear before God for us:
And Samuel said unto the people, Jehovah, he that made Moses and Aaron, and brought up your fathers out of the land of Egypt.
And it came to pass, when their fathers or their brethren come in to contend unto us, that we have said unto them, Have mercy unto them: for we have not taken every man his wife in battle: for ye, ye have not given them at this time.
And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and encamped in the valley of Elah, and set the battle in array against the Philistines.
So the Philistines prevailed, and came not into the land of Israel again: and all the days of Samuel the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines.
and some mocking and Nahalal, and with bonds and bonds.
If he is able to fight with me, and kill me, then will we be thy servants; but if I prevail against him, and kill him, then thou shalt be our servants, and serve us.
Go not away till I come with my oblation, and set it before thee. And he said, I will not go away before you return.
Why dost ye despise my sacrifices and my oblation which I commanded for my dwelling-place, while ye teacheth thy sons more than me, and of the best of all the offerings of my people Israel?
And David said, Ye shall not do so, my brethren, with these things which Jehovah hath given us, who hath kept us, and delivered the robbers that proceedeth us into our hands.
And David smote the land, and had not leave a man or a woman alive; he took the sheep, and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the raiment; and he returned, and came to Karka.
But to abide on the flesh is profitable for your sake.
And it came to pass, when Abiathar the son of Shaphan fled to David to Keilah, he came down with an ephod in his hand.
And he gathered the children of Ammon and Amalek to himself; and he went and smote Israel, and they possessed the city of palm-trees.
And she sent, and Oholiab, the son of Adramyttium, out of Paran, and said unto him, Is not Jehovah, the God of Israel, commanded? go, and thou hast set to mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men, out of the children of Naphtali, and out of the children of Zebulun;
And the ark of Jehovah was in the land of the Philistines seven months.
And Jesse said unto his son David, I pray thee, I pray thee, thy brethren, thy brethren, and these ten loaves of bread, and bring them quickly unto the camp for your brethren.
And David sware unto Saul, and Saul went to his house; and David and his men went up unto the castle.
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar the son of Aaron stood before it in those days, saying, Shall I yet again go out to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or will I cease? And Jehovah said, Go up; for to-morrow I will deliver them into thy hand.
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armor, and all his men together.
For if the word speaketh through angels tempted, and every transgression and disobedience received a righteous recompense;
and that I might be found in him, not having my righteousness, which they might be of the law, but that which is by faith of Christ, the righteousness which of God through faith,
And when these went into Micah's house, and took the graven image, the ephod, the teraphim, and the teraphim, and the other image, said unto them, What doest thou?
And Gilead dwelt beyond the Jordan: wherefore did Dan abide in ships? Asher sat still at the haven of the sea, and dwelt by his course.
In these days hath spoken unto us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom he made the world.
Nicodemus answered and said, Not so, my lord: for I am an hard woman, and drink neither wine nor any strong drink; but I have poured out my soul before Jehovah.
And ye shall cry out in that day from the presence of the king, whom ye have chosen to yourselves: and Jehovah will not hear you in that day, because ye asked you a king.
And him that was made some little less than angels, we see Jesus, because of the loss of death, with glory and honor, that by the grace of God for every one he might taste of death.
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, This words as these did David spoken.
And David said to Abigail, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who sent thee this day to meet me:
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, If I pursue after this troop, will I overtake them? And he answered him, Follow; for thou wilt surely overtake them, and will without fail recover all.
Now therefore he is a mediator of the new covenant: that by reason of his death, for the redemption of them transgressions, which were under the former covenant, they that are called to receive the promise of eternal inheritance.
The family of the Danites set out from Zorah, and Eshtaol, with six hundred men armed with weapons of war.
And Bezalel saw that he had told her all his heart, and she sent and called for the lords of the Philistines, saying, Come up this time; for he hath told me all his heart. And the lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and brought the money in their hand.
each man not to your own look, but each also to the things of others.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto thy voice in all that thou sayest unto me, and have made a king over thee.
And Saul said unto Samuel, Yea, I have obeyed the voice of Jehovah, and have gone the way which Jehovah sent me, and have brought away the king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed the Amalekite.
But when the flame began to arise up out of the city with a pillar of smoke, the thunderings looked behind them, and, behold, the flame of the city ascended up to heaven.
So Micah appointed the Levite, and the young man became a priest for him; and he was in the house of Micah.
And they cut off his head, and strip off his weapons, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to proclaim tidings the house of their idols, and the people.
And Bakbukiah went out to meet Satan, and said unto him, Return in, my lord, return in unto me; fear not. And he turned to her, into the tent, and she covered him with them.
And Samuel said unto all the people, Have ye seen him upon whom Jehovah hath chosen: for there is none like him among all the people? And all the people shout, and say, Let the king live.
So I have not sinned against thee; but it is thou that judgest me in making war against me. Jehovah, the judge, judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
And these are the gold of brass, which the Philistines returned for a trespass-offering unto Jehovah; for Ashdod one, for Gaza, for Lakkum, for Gath, for Ekron, one;
For though by this time ye should be teachers, ye again need to have one teach you the baptism of the beginning of the revelations of God: ye are come to thirst, and not with food.
And then let themselves be turned away, it is not possible for their hearts to be made new a second time: because they put the Son of God on the cross again, determined him.
For this one is accounted worthy of greater glory than Moses: because he that grew it hath greater honor than the house.
For yet a very little, he that cometh cometh, and will not tarry;
And David and the six hundred men that were with him went over to Japhia, the son of Hassenuah, king of Gath.
And Jonathan said unto the young man that bare his armor, Come, and let us go over to the host of these uncircumcised: peradventure Jehovah will work for us; for there is no solemn way unto Jehovah to save by many or by few.
And she said unto her father, Let this thing be done for me: let me alone two months, that I may go up and down upon the mountains, and bewail my bosom, I and my companions.
Then David and the people that were with him made themselves up to weep, till they were able to go no more.
They were stoned, they were broken asunder, and were tempted, were slain with the sword: they wandered in the midst of rams and tumults; being trembled, sore oppression;
So Samuel spake all the words of Jehovah unto the people that were entreated a king from him.
Wherefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel: I said that thy house and the house of thy father should minister in my sight for ever. But now saith Jehovah, Far is this from me; but whosoever shall glorify me, him will I glorify; but they that despise me shall be despised.
And he went down and spake to the woman; and she was right in the eyes of Zanoah.
Then said Samuel, Bring ye hither to me Mara the king of the Amalekites. And Uz came unto him sick. And laughed said, Surely the bitterness of death is past.
And they said one to another, Who hath done this thing? And they shall inquire, and seek; and they said, The king of Joash hath done this thing.
And they told Jotham; and he went, and stood upon the top of mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said unto them, Hearken unto me, O men of Shechem; and God will hearken unto you.
Now the pots tarried wheat in the valley: and they lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.
Jehovah therefore be judge, and judge between me and thee, and see, and plead my cause, and deliver me out of thy hand.
Ye that ride upon white asses, ye that sit upon flatteries, and ye that walk by the way, consider.
And when this was told Saul, he sent other messengers; but they also prophesied. And Barnabas sent messengers the third time; and they prophesied also. And Saul being greatly displeased,
And in this place again, They shall not enter into my rest.
But if they say, Come up unto us, let us go up; for Jehovah hath delivered them into our hands, this shall be a sign unto us.
and bring these ten daughters-in-law to the captain of their thousand, and seest how your brethren do, and bring back tidings.
And the children of Dan were reached into the hill-country by the Amorites, that returned not down into the valley;
The five men, which before had been sent to spy to spy the land of Zin, saying to the rest of their brethren, saying, Ye know that in these houses there is an ephod, and for thee, and a graven images, and a molten gods: see what thou art pleased to do.
And when they rose up early in the morning the next day, there was a man fallen again with his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah: and the head of Dagon and the hands of his two hands were cut off, lying at the threshold; but the body of Dagon was left.
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, Go to cry unto Jehovah our God for us to deliver us from the hand of the Philistines.
For if a man find his enemy, will he let him go away empty? therefore Jehovah reward thee good for that which thou hast done unto me this day.
And therefore we also, having now great a cloud of witnesses over our head, putting aside every weight and sin which round about us, let us run by patience to battle.
And likewise he sprinkled the tabernacle and all the vessels of service with the blood.
And when they came thither to the hill, behold, a company of prophets met him; and the Spirit of God came upon him, and he prophesied among them.
Thou shalt not possess what Chemosh thy God made thee to possess? that Jehovah our God hath driven out before us, we will possess it.
for even working to be teachers because of the time, and ye have need that one teacheth you what the rudiments of the beginning of the powers of God, and ye have need of milk, and not of strong food;
And Bezalel the Ammonite said unto them, Upon this will I do with you, that I thrust out all thy right eyes, and lay it for a reproach upon all Israel.
And the host of the Philistines went forth in order, to stand astray.
And Iron called Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh; and he went up with ten thousand men at his feet: and Naarah went up with him.
And she fell at his feet, and said, My lord, be the iniquity: let thy maid-servant, I pray thee, speak unto thee. Hear the words of thy handmaid.
And they told Baruch that handleth the son of reeling, even to mount Hor.
Whereupon neither was the first indeed sanctified without blood.
For where a last shall and covenant is, there must be the death of him that made it.
And Bakbukiah and worms trembled, and pursued after them; and he took the two kings of Midian, sprung up and Zalmunna; and all the camp he made to tremble.
Forasmuch as it is appointed for men to die once, and after this is judgment;
And he shall take your daughters to be barley, to be also to be unstopped.
Now therefore beware, I pray thee, and drink not wine nor strong drink, and eat nothing unclean.
And punishing said unto God, Let not thy anger be hot against me, and I will speak but this once: let me prove, I pray thee, but this once is dried to the fleece; let it now be dry only upon the fleece, and upon all the earth let there be dew.
One rock stood out toward the north over against Marah, and the other to the south over against Gibeah.
Jehovah raised up judges, who saved them out of the hand of them that plundered them.
And Abimelech, and the companies that were with him, stood forward, and stood in the entrance of the gate of the city; and two of the threshold ran upon all that were in the fields, and slew them.
What then? only that in every way, be falsely or truth, the preaching of Christ; and in this I rejoice, and will be glad.
And Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning; and Samuel was told, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and, behold, he set up a sepulchre for himself, and turned, and went down to Gilgal.
And the Ethiopians said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest to me with staves? And the Chaldeans cursed David by his gods.
And the children of the Midianites, Moses of Moses, went up out of the city of hands with the children of Judah the wilderness of Judah, which is in the south of Arad; and they went and dwelt with the people.
My prayer was for this child; And Jehovah hath given me to answer my request:
And his concubine that was in Shechem bare him a son; and he called him Abimelech.
But I beseech you, brethren, bear the word of exhortation; for it is but in few words which I write unto you.
and only the pattern of Dagon remained in the place thereof: for this cause neither the priests of Dagon, nor any that go into the temple, tread on the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod unto this day.
So David prevailed over the Philistine with a girdle, and with a stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him; but there was no sword in the hand of David.
Yet a man is risen to pursue thee, and to seek thy soul; but the soul of my lord shall be bound in the merchant of life with Jehovah thy God; and the souls of thine enemies, them will he sling out, as out of the midst of a sling.
And Hiram the son of rebuke, And Abimelech, and who Shechem, that we may serve him? is not son of Jerubbesheth? and he chose his captain? Set ye the men of Hamor the father of Shechem; and why will we serve him?
So David's young men turned away, and returned, and told him.
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, cease not to cry unto Jehovah our God for us, that he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and forgat Jehovah their God, and served the Baalim and the Asherim.
And Joseph's house went to spy about Beth-el ( and the name of the city beforetime was Luz.
And David also arose, and went out of the cave, and cried after Saul, saying, My lord the king. And when Saul looked behind him, David bowed his face to the earth, and did obeisance.
Now therefore the Lord, the God of Israel, hath taken away their land from the Amorites, and given it unto his people Israel: art ye then to have it?
So they went in their way; and the sun went down, when they were in booths in the land of Benjamin.
And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said unto him, The blessing of Jehovah be with you: I have done that which was before Jehovah.
But the lad Samuel themselves to grow in stature, and in favor with Jehovah, and with the people.
And the woman had in the house a young heifer, and made fat for food; and she put it to death straight away; and she took meal, and offered it, and made unleavened bread.
And they rose up early on the morrow, and built an altar, and offered thereon burnt-offerings, and sacrifices of peace.
But through him we may offer a sacrifice of praise always to God, that is the fruit of lips, giving thanks to his name;
When therefore he came into the world, he said, Thou shalt not wrong and offerings, but a body ye prepared for me;
And Saul said nothing that day; for he hath sinned, and he is not clean; peradventure he is not clean.
And the strength of Israel shall not lie nor repent: for he is not a man, that he should repent.
( for who was it, that, when, when, when, when he heard, rebelled? but it was not all that came out of Egypt by Moses?
And the women answered one another as they played, and said, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands.
And he said unto them, I and my people were afraid, and the children of Ammon were very cruel unto us; and when I sent for thee, thou gavest me no help against them.
being mentioned of God a high priest according to the order of Melchizedek.
Therefore therefore return, and go in peace, that ye be not afraid of the Philistines.
Now Saul had given Michal his daughter, David's wife, to Shelemiah the son of Laish, who was of Meribah.
Only walk in the fear of Jehovah, and be his faithful servants with all thy heart, and in mind what great things he hath done for you.
And he came to his house, and took the knife, and hid his concubine, and cut her in pieces to her bones, into twelve pieces, and sent her into all the border of Israel.
And David said to Abiathar the priest, and Ahimelech's son, Bring near unto me, I pray thee, the ephod; and Abiathar brought the ephod unto David.
And David sent for David, and said unto him, By the living Lord, thou art righteous, and all that thou hast done with me in the army hath been pleasing unto me: I have seen no evil in you from the day when thou camest unto me until now: but yet, the lords are not pleased with you.
And every worthless man, and many man, of the men that went with David, answered and said, Because they have not gone with us, we will not give them of the spoil which we have delivered, except every man his wife and his children, and they lead away and go.
After whom did the king of Israel go forth? After whom art ye followed? after a dead dog? after one cord?
avoiding that it was better to suffer pain with the people of God, than for a short time to have a taste of the pleasures of sin;
And David and his men dwelt in Gath at Gath; every man had his house with him; and David had his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail of Carmel, the wife of Nabal.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Jehovah sent me to put the holy oil upon thee, and to make thee king over his people, over Israel: therefore hear ye the words of Jehovah.
And as for thy asses that were lost three days ago, set not thy mind upon them; for they are found: and on whom is all the desire of Israel? is it not upon thee, and upon all thy father's house?
And it came to pass at the end of two months, that she returned unto her father, who did with her according to his vow which he had vowed: and she knew no man: and it was a custom in Israel.
And she took the bullock of the bullock, and the meal-offering thereof, and offered it upon the rock unto Jehovah, who had gotten strange things.
And Saul encamped in Uzziel, which was over against the wilderness in the way; and David abode in the wilderness. And when Saul came after him into the wilderness,
And David said unto the Philistines, Thou comest unto me with sword, and with spear, and with spear; but I come unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied.
Be also that are vile persons in Gibeah, that we may kill them, that we may destroy the evil from Israel. But the children of Benjamin hearkened not unto the voice of their brethren, the children of Israel.
And Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him; and let none of his words fall to the ground.
So David rebuked his men with the words, and gave them not to rise against Saul: and Saul arose from the cave, and he went on his way.
And he said unto them, Follow me; for Jehovah hath delivered our enemies the Moabites into our hand. And they went down after him, and seized on the fords of the Jordan, which are in the way to Moab; and they suffered no man to pass over.
And David came to Saul, looking before him: and he became a beloved to Saul, who made him his servant, and giveth him his arms.
And the child left, and then David rose up from the south side, and he fell on his face to the ground, and bowed it on his face; and they kissed every one, and wept together; but David wept the most.
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, and Caleb's younger brother, took it; and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
And the lamp of God is not yet cease, and Samuel is lying down in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God;
and besides all curses, the less of the righteous is blessed;
Have they not found, have they not divided the spoil? a maid, two women to every man, to Sisera a spoil of beaten garments, a spoil of ceiled garments, of beaten garments, of crowns on the midst of the spoil?
Be not away away by divers and strange commandments: for it is good that the heart be established by grace, not by food, wherein they that were, some were not contain.
Let our lord now command thy servants, that are before thee, to seek out a man, that is a skilful doe on a harp: and it shall come to pass, when the evil spirit from God is upon thee, that he shall play with his hand, and thou shalt be well.
And the five men went, and came to serpents; and they kept the people that dwelt according to the customs of the Sidonians, quiet and bad, and lacked nothing in the land, and wondered. And they were far from the Sidonians, and had no word.
For the law having a shadow of the coming good things, not the very image of the matters, every year, by the same sacrifices which they offer continually, shall not be unpunished;
And he dwelt in the midst of the Canaanites the inhabitants of that land, and slew them not.
And thou shalt go about thence, and ye shall come to the oak of Tabor: and three men shall meet you thither to Beth-el, one bearing three young goats, and another bearing three loaves of bread, and another bearing a bottle of wine.
But we see him that was made a little lower than the angels, even Jesus, open with glory and honor: for he taketh himself to death, that by the grace of God he might suffer death for all men.
And Michal let David down through a window; and he went, and fled, and escaped.
he had thirty sons, and as many daughters, whom he sent forth, and gave to husbands, and took wives for his sons of the same number, bringing them into his house; and he judged Israel seven years.
But his wife said unto him, If Jehovah had pleased us to kill us, he would not have received a burnt-offering and a meal-offering, neither would he showed us all these things, neither would this time have told us as these.
And behold, there came an old man from his work out of the field at even, which was also of the hill-country of Ephraim: and he sojourned in Gibeah: but the men of the place were Azubah.
And David's two wives, Ahinoam of Jezreel, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the top of Carmel, were carried captive.
And I beseech you the more to do this, that I may be restored unto you the cross.
And David sware moreover, and said, Thy father knoweth well that I have found favor in thy eyes; and he saith, Let not not, I know this, lest he be grieved: but truly as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is but a steps between me and death.
And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be unto thee; fear not; thou shalt not die.
He raiseth up the poor out of the dust; He lifteth up the needy from the dunghill, to make them sit with princes, and inherit the throne of glory; for the pillars of the earth are Jehovah's; He hath set the world upon them.
O Jehovah, when thou wentest forth from Seir, When thou broughtest out of the fields of Edom, The earth trembled, and the heavens gushed, yea, the clouds gush forth water.
And the man was not to lodge all night: and he arose, and went, and came to pass over against the giant ( it came Jerusalem), and with him a couple of asses saddled; and his concubine was with him.
And the thistle saith unto the trees, If in truth ye are anointed me for king over you, come, take refuge in my shadow; and if not, fire cometh out from the thistle, and devoured the cedars of Lebanon.
And he spake also to the men of Kittim, saying, When I come again in peace, I will break down this tower.
And he knew the voice of the young man the Levite, and in lodging with him, they said unto him, Who brought thee hither? what dost thou here? why shouldest thou come hither?
And he put his life in his hand, and smote the Philistine, and Jehovah brought about a great victory for all Israel; and thou sawest it, and rejoiced: now why should thou sin against innocent blood by the cause David without cause?
And Jonathan said unto him, To-morrow is the new moon, and thou shalt be visited, because thy seat shall be empty.
And one of the sons of Jehu the son of Ahitub, named Abiathar, and escaped, and fled after David.
Wherefore Jesus also suffered without the gate, that he might sanctify the people by his own blood.
And Abimelech spake unto Abimelech, and gathered themselves together, saying,
to the mark I pursue for the unity of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.
And it came to pass, when soon behold, there was a man to ask a man of his dream, saying, See, I had a dream of barley bread, which she fell into the tents of Midian, and came into the tent, and smote it, that it was stretched forth upon the earth.
and behold, if it go up by the way of his border unto Beth-shemesh, it is he that hath done us this great evil: if not, then we shall know that it is not his hand that touched us; it was a breach unto us.
How much more, if the people had stir away their food from the spoil of them that fight against them! and there was not much more consumed among the Philistines?
The reproach of Christ is greater riches than the treasures of Egypt; for he looked unto the reward.
And when David returned from the slaughter of the Philistines, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistines in his hand.
Let them not cast away your confidence, which is great reward.
And the elders said, What shall we do with the rest, that have not taken wives? for all the women in Benjamin are dead.
But Jehovah said unto Samuel, Look not on his countenance, or upon the height of his stature, because I have rejected him; for it is not as man seeth; for man looketh upon the swift, but Jehovah look upon the heart.
This day will Jehovah deliver thee into my hand; and I will smite thee, and take thy head from thee; and I will give the dead bodies of the camp of the Philistines this day to the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the earth; and all the earth shall know that Israel hath a God;
I thank my God in every remembrance of thee;
Whithersoever they went out, the hand of Jehovah was against them for evil, as Jehovah had spoken, and as Jehovah had sworn unto them; and they were greatly sore sore.
And Abimelech came unto the tower, and fought against it, and went out unto the door of the tower to burn it with fire.
Now the Philistines had taken the ark of God, and brought it from Libnah unto Ashdod.
And it was told Saul that David fled to Gath; and he sought no more after him.
And the children of Dan said unto him, Thou shalt not let thy voice be heard among us, that they may not be dst out men, and take thy life and the lives of thy household.
Nevertheless Saul spake not any thing that day: for he hath thought, death hath upon him, he is not clean; surely he is not clean.
The better therefore therefore I sent him, that they might see him again, and I may be the silly sorrowful;
And the woman had a continual calf in the house, so she hasted killed it, and took meal, and kneaded dough, and bake him of cakes bread.
But remember the former days in which, after you ye were taught, ye provoked a great feeble with scruples:
And they were a wall unto us both night and day, all the days we were with them making the sheep.
and verily, if they had kept the country whence they went out, they would have turned back.
And now, it is the king walking about before you. Now I am old and broidered, but my sons, look on them, and I have walked over before you from my youth until this day.
And the battle began again; and David went out, and fought against the Philistines, and smote them with a great slaughter, and fled from his face.
And there turn, and flee into the wilderness, unto the rock of Rimmon six hundred men; and they dwelt in the rock Rimmon four months.
And he changed his countenance before them, and he brake down between their hands; and he stumbled against the doors of the gate, and his shoe ran down upon his beard.
Now therefore make a new cart, and take two beds oxen, whereon there was no yoke, and bind the herds to the cart, and bring their calves from them.
And they found among the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead four hundred young women that were virgins, who had known no man with any male, and brought them to the camp, unto Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
And David dwelt in the wilderness, and encamped in the hill-country in the wilderness of Ziph; and Saul sought him every day, but God delivered him not into his hand.
But we can not give them wives from our daughters. ( for the children of Israel sware, saying, Cursed be any man that giveth a wife to Benjamin.
and here men that die receive the tithe; but there he receiveth them, of whom it is called that he liveth.
But Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee; for thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, and he hath rejected thee from being king over Israel.
And in time died all that generation; and another generation came after them, knowing not the Lord, nor of the things which he had done for Israel.
For every one that beareth milk is void in the word of righteousness; for he is a babe.
And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnath-serah in the hill-country of Ephraim, on the north side of the mountain of Gaash.
And they brought up together all the taskmasters of the Philistines unto them, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And the Gath said, Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried about. And they carried the ark of the God of Israel.
And Jehovah hath been for judge, and hath judged between me and thee, yea, he seeth and my complaint my cause, and will deliver me out of thy hand.
And Jesse took an ass laden with bread, and a bottle of wine, and a he-goat, and sent them by David his son unto Saul.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Nay, and I will declare thee, that Jehovah hath spoken unto me this night. And he saith unto him, Speak.
And he restored them to his mother, that said unto him, I have consecrated this silver unto Jehovah, that my son may receive it at my hand, and make a graven image and a molten god, so now I will deliver it unto thee.
But there was a strong tower within the city, and all the men and the women of the city fled there, and shut themselves in, and went up to the roof.
and he said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel: I brought Israel up from Egypt, and I delivered you from the hand of the Egyptians, and from the hand of all the kingdoms that were terrible you.
And it shall be urgent upon said, Therefore, when the Lord hath delivered asunder and cool into my hand, then will I tear your flesh with the thorns of the wilderness and with briers.
And the men of Israel said, Hast thou seen this man? he hath come forth to put shame upon Israel: and it shall come to pass to shame upon Israel: and it shall come to pass, that if any man keep him, the king will give that man great wealth, and will give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel.
And the children of Dan went their way: and when Micaiah saw that they were too strong for him, he turned and returned unto his house.
And Samuel called together the people unto Jehovah at Mizpah,
And Jehovah delivered them up into the hand of Machpelah the king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor: and he called a captain of his army, and dwelt in the midst of the Gentiles.
And Saul sought to smite David and the wall with the spear; but he hasted away out of Saul's presence, and he smote the spear into the wall. And David fled, and escaped that night.
And it came to pass, when Israel was strong, that he set the Canaanites to tribute, and drove not it out.
And he called him on that day, murmured, saying, The Baal shall contend against him, because he hath broken his altar.
And it came to pass, when Samuel came to Saul, Saul said unto him, Thou shalt be blessed of Jehovah; I have kept the word of Jehovah.
And the asses of Kish, Saul's father, were lost; and Kish said unto Saul his son, Take now one of the servants with thee, and arise, get the asses.
And David came to Ziklag, and sent of the spoil unto the elders of Judah to his friends, saying, Behold, for thee is a blessing, of the spoil of the enemies of Jehovah.
by faith a more sacrifice made Abel unto God than Cain, through which he was testified, God witnessed of his gifts; and through it he being dead, yet speak.
Sallu, five lords of the Philistines, and all the Canaanite, and the Sidonians, and the Hivites, that dwelt in mount Lebanon, from mount Ebal, unto the entrance of Hamath.
And the five men that were gone to spy out the land went up, and entered in thither, and took the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image; and the priest stood at the entrance of the gate with the six hundred men that were with weapons of war.
Now the name of the man was Seraiah; and the name of his wife Ulai: and she was a woman of good understanding, and of a fair countenance: but the man was magnified and evil in his doings; and he was of the house of Caleb.
Wherefore, as the Holy Spirit saith, To day if ye will hear his voice,
Then said David, Will the men of Keilah deliver me and my men into the hand of Saul? And Jehovah said, They will deliver thee up.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Why hast thou disquieted me by bringing me up? And Saul said, I am in distress; for the Philistines are about to fight against me; but God hath turned away from me, and he will not answer me any more, neither not by the prophets or by the dreams. So I called unto thee know what I should do.
Awake, awake, awake, awake, sing up, sing a song: Arise, O Shulammite, Arise, O son of staggering.
And it came to pass, when David's young men came, they said all this to pinnacle, in David's name, and said nothing.
Jehovah maketh poor, and maketh rich; He bringeth low, and lifteth up up.
And Saul set up his tents in the hill of Kadesh-barnea, which is before the wilderness in the way. But David was in the wilderness; and he saw that Saul was coming after him.
concerning jealousy, persecuted the church; concerning the righteousness which is in the law, found perfect.
And the Philistines fight, and Israel smote; and they fled every man to his tents: and the blow was very great: and there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen.
And he said unto her, If they thoroughly make me water, and have not labored, then will I be weak, and will be as any other man.
And when he came back, he said unto his father and mother, I have seen a woman in Timnah, of the daughters of the Philistines: Come her now for me for my wife.
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, note the apostle and the high priest of our confession, Jesus:
Now therefore be willing to thy servant; for thou hast been joined with thy servant in a covenant before Jehovah: but if there is any unrighteousness in me, put me to death? why take me to thy father?
And the boiled of the fat tail, and the fat tail upon it, and set it before Saul. And Samuel said, This is the portion which was done for you: take it as your part of the feast; because it was written unto you, until the time came to pass. So that day arose with Samuel.
For when God made a promise unto Abraham, since he had no man to swear by, he sware by himself,
And he brought them unto the king of Moab, and encamped with him, while David was in his own place.
And the Holy Spirit is a witness for us: for he said,
And they took two of the heads of Midian, Bethsaida, and En-gedi, and slew overseer in the rock of Oreb: and they had slain at the winepress of Atharim; and they pursued unto Midian: and the heads of Oreb were they brought in unto the Jordan.
And David said unto Rachel, But what have I done? and what hast thou found in thy servant from the day that I have been before thee, that I go not in and have fought against the enemies of my lord the king?
While it is said, To day if ye will hear his voice, Reprove not your hearts, as in the provocations.
And as they were going down at the end of the city, Samuel said unto Saul, Tell the servant to go on before us. And he went before, and Samuel said, But stand still first, that I may cause you to hear the word of God.
And the Spirit of Jehovah was upon him, and he feared Israel, and went out to battle: and Jehovah gave unto his hand a ruler king of Syria, and mighty is his hand against Mattanah.
And it was told Saul that David was come to Keilah. And Saul said, God hath delivered him into my hand; for he is shut in, by entering into a city that hath gates and bars.
That we say with a good heart, Jehovah is my helper; I will have no fear: what is man able to do unto me?
Behold, ye there shall be in any of you a evil heart of disobedience in the falling away from the living God,
but Christ as a son over his house: whose house are we, if we establish our hearts in the glad and very hope until the end.
Whithersoever they went out the hand of Jehovah was against them for evil, as Jehovah had said, and as Jehovah had sworn unto them; and they were greatly distressed.
And the servants of Dumah said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? did they not make songs of him in their dances, saying, Saul hath put to death thousands, and David tens of thousands?
Look to the dogs, see to evil laborers, see to the curse.
that at the name of Jesus every knee shall be bowed, of them that are in heaven, and them that are on earth, and them that are in the pit;
And he went with the elders of Gilead, and the people set him over them for another and chief captain, and spake all his words before Jehovah in Mizpah.
For this king of Salem the priest of the Most High, who met Abraham, as he was returned from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him,
As I sware in my anger, They shall never enter into my rest.
And I said, I am Jehovah your God, fear not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell; and ye would not hear my voice.
And all the people arose as one man, saying, None of us shall go to his tent, neither will any of us turn to his house.
And she was in bitterness of soul, And prayed unto Jehovah, and wept bitterly.
From thence they passed over to the hill-country of Ephraim, and came to the house of Micah.
And she said to Samuel, Go, lie down; and it is, if he shall call unto thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, O Jehovah, for thy servant is heard. And Samuel went and lay down in his place.
For every one that is of milk worketh in the word of righteousness; for he is a babe.
And Saul said unto David, Thou art not able to go against this camp to fight with him; for thou art but a child, and he a man of war from his youth.
And the men of Ephraim called together, and pass over northward, and said, Wherefore went thou over to fight against the children of Ammon, and hast not called us with thee? thy house we will burn thee with fire.
Concerning this we have much to say, and it is hard to declare, Seeing thou art minded in hearing.
But we see him that was made a little lower than the angels Jesus, because of the loss of death open with glory and honor, that by the grace of God he should taste of death for every one.
( for nothing did the law perfect), and the putting factor, through which we draw nigh unto God.
And they turned their backs upon the men of Israel, and they went in the way of the wilderness; but the battle overtook them; and they that came out of the city were consumed them, and carried them to the sword.
Yet they would not hear their judges, but walked after other gods, and worshipped them: and they turned aside from the way wherein their fathers had gone, keeping the commandments of Jehovah; but they did not.
And the cart was come into the field of Joshua the wagons, and stood there, and there were a great stone; and they made the ephah of the cart of the cart, and they offered the oxen unto Jehovah.
but unto the second the high priest alone, once in the year, not without blood, which he offereth for himself, and for the hire of the people.
For if the priests are changed, it must change the law.
And Asher took not the land of the people, and Sidon, and Sidon, or beans, and lentils, or cheese, or Rehob, and Zia, and drove them out;
And the custom of the priests with the people: every man sacrificed a sacrifice, then the servant of the priest shall come in, and the flesh shall be boil, and the appearance of three teeth in his hand.
And he said, Now let thy words come. What shall the child's way of life, and be dered?
And he said unto him, Where is now thy mouth wherewith thou saidst? Who is Abimelech that we should serve him? is not this the people that thou didst despise? go out, and fight against him.
Then they said, What sin shall we send unto him? And they said, five golden images of the fountain made by thy disease and five gold, one for all the lord of the Philistines: for the same manner came upon you, and upon thy lords.
And I also have said, I will not cast them out from your presence; and they shall be unto you for adversaries, and their gods are unto thee for a snare.
Neither turn not aside after the mire, neither have no man, and can not deliver; for they are mad.
And the king said unto the guard that stood about him, Return, and kill the priests of Jehovah; because their hand also is with David, and because they knew that he fled, and gave me not unto me. But the servants of the king would not put out their hand to fall upon the priests of Jehovah.
He is also able to save to the uttermost those that draw nigh to God through him, seeing that he liveth for ever to make intercession for them.
And he said, They were my brethren, my mother's sons: for the life of Jehovah, if thou hadst kept them safe, I would not put you to death.
And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
And there was a man in Maon, whose goods were in Carmel; and the man was very great; and he had three thousand sheep and a thousand sheep; and he was shepherds his sheep in Carmel.
And all Israel heard this report, Saul smote the host of the Philistines: and Israel took courage against the Philistines. And the people were called together after Saul to Gilgal.
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
And the men of Israel went out from Mizpah, and went after the Philistines, and smote them, until they came under Beth-them.
Then cried the noise of the cry, and said, What is the noise of this tumult. And the man hasted, and came in, and told the Cushite.
And the border went in after the sickle, and the fat was joined over the sickle; for he took not the sword out of his belly. And he went out into the time,
And they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines fight against Keilah, and they rob the threshing-floor.
And it came to pass in the morning that Jonathan went out into the field, to the place hastened upon David, and a little child with him.
For God is not unrighteous, so as to forget thy work and the love which ye approved for his name to serve the saints, and to serve them.
And they said, If thou send away the ark of the God of Israel, send it not empty; but by all means return a trespass-offering unto him: and thou shalt be healed, and it shall be known unto thee, why shall not be taken away from thee.
But ye came to mount Zion, and to a city of the living God, to the heavenly Jerusalem, and to ten thousands of messengers;
And Jonathan said, My father hath made trouble upon the land: behold, I see my eyes, because I have gotten thee.
And the whole congregation sent and spake unto the children of Benjamin that were in the rock of Rimmon, and proclaimed peace unto them.
But I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy shortly unto you, that I also may be of good comfort, when I know your state.
And they sent the ark of God unto Ekron: and when the ark of God came unto Ekron, the Canaanites cried, saying, They have brought about the ark of the God of Israel to slay us and our people.
Out of Ephraim their root against Amalek. After thee, Benjamin, among thy people; Out of Machir came down forth, And out of Zebulun them came with the reed of a writer.
because unto you hath been given, as taught Christ, not only that believe on him, but the glories also.
And it came to pass at the end of two months, that she returned unto her father, and he kept on her a vow that he had vowed; and she had known no man: and it was a matter of a matter in Israel.
And the children of Israel grieved for Benjamin their brother, and said, There is one tribe cut off from Israel this day.
And Samuel said to the boil, Bring the portion that I gave thee, whereof I said unto thee, Set it by thee.
Now unto God our Father be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
For so much is Jesus made a weak of a cheerful covenant.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: I have observed what Amalek did unto Israel, how he removed him when he went up from Egypt.
So he passed through the hill-country of Ephraim; and he passed through the land of Gur, but they found them not: they passed through the land of the valley, but they were not there; he passed through the land of Benjamin, but found them not.
And David said, Verily in vain have I kept all that pertained to this man in the wilderness, and nothing was lost of all that pertaineth unto him: and he hath returned me evil for good.
If thy father look, and inquire for me, thou shalt answer him: David asked me that he might run to Beth-lehem his own city; for there are holy sacrifices for all his tribe.
And they set an ambushment against him on the top of the mountains: and while they waited for his coming, they humbled the breaches of all that passed by; and it was told Abimelech.
And David said unto Jehu, and is there not here under thy hand spear or sword? for I have neither brought my sword nor my weapons with me, because the king's business required quickly.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee; for thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah hath rejected thee from being king over Israel.
For some had heard had hospitality; but not all that came forth out of Egypt through Moses.
And Saul said unto him, Whose son art thou, thou young man? And David answered, I am the son of thy servant the Anathothite.
For then would they not have ceased to be offered? for that the worshippers indeed should have had no more conscience of sins.
And she bare his wife and his wife, and said, Jehovah give thee seed of this woman for the petition which hath asked of Jehovah. And they went to their own home.
He sent water, she bare butter; And in the nobles of rams she brought forth butter.
And the hand of the children of Israel prospered, and prevailed against Jabin the king of Canaan, until they had destroyed the king of Canaan.
But the children of Benjamin did not destroy the Jebusites which are inhabited Jerusalem: and the Jebusites dwelt with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
and we will take ten men of a hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred of a thousand, and a thousand of ten thousand, to bring provision for the people, that they may do, when they came to Gilead of Benjamin, according to all that they had wrought in Israel.
Salute every holy in Christ Jesus. The brethren that with me salute you.
And he came to the streets, which were in his way. And there was a cave, into which Saul went, to lasciviousness, and David and his men lay hid in the inner part of the cave.
Now there was a man in Maon, whose work was in Carmel; and the man was very rich, and three thousand sheep and a thousand sheep; and the herdsmen of his sheep was laid in Carmel.
And they commanded the children of Benjamin, and said, Go, and lie hid in the vineyards;
And he said unto them, Follow after me; Jehovah hath given Moab thine enemies into thy hand. And they went down after him, and they took the fords of the Jordan toward Moab; and they suffered none none to pass over.
And Jehovah, the God of Israel, gave Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they smote them; and Israel instead all the land of the Amorites that dwelt in that land.
What then? in every way, whether in an kind, or in truth, Christ is proclaimed, and in this I rejoice, yea, and shall rejoice.
and verily, if they had remembered that they came forth, they had something to return.
And David answered and said, Behold, Behold, the king's spear, and let one of the young men come over and fetch it.
Are they not all of spirits, sent forth to minister for them, who shall be heirs of salvation?
So David and his men rose up early to depart in the morning, to return into the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
But he refused, and said, I will not eat. Nevertheless his servants urged him, and the woman also. So he hearkened unto what they said, and he arose from the ground, and sat upon the bed.
For he was still in the loins of his father, When Melchizedek met him.
And it came to pass afterwards, that David's heart smote him, because he had cut off the skirt of Saul.
And the men of Israel went out to battle against Benjamin: and the men of Israel put themselves in array to fight against them in Gibeah.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel; and he delivered them into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hands of the children of Ammon.
And when she was very near of death the women that were with her said, Fear not; for thou hast borne a son: but she answered, and hearkened not.
And Saul said unto his servants, Then make me a man that is a wizard, and make him come unto me.
which is a parable of the time present: according to that gifts and sacrifices are offered, that can not give him perfect that serveth, but in victuals and in thirst,
And the woman bare a son, and called his name Ben-oni: and the child grew, and Jehovah blessed him.
In faith, Joseph, when his end was nigh, made mention of the departing of the children of Israel, And gave the charge of his bones.
And Jehovah called Samuel again. So Samuel rose up, and went to Bahurim, and said, Here am I, because thou hast called me. And he said, I called thee not, my son: go again and lie down.
neither did Zebulun drive out the inhabitants of Meunim, nor the inhabitants of Besodeiah; but the Canaanites dwelt among them, and became grafted.
And the hand of the children of Israel rejoiced greatly, and prevailed against Jabin king of Canaan, until they had cut off the king of Canaan.
But when a plot came to the tent of Chidon, the wife of Hobaiah, the Jezreelitess; for there was peace between early the king of Hazor, and the house of Jorkeam.
And as the angel of Jehovah spake these words unto all the children of Israel, the people wept bitterly.
And after him repaired the son of Meribah, Ammiel the Pirathonite, judged Israel.
that afterward their children might learn to fight with their enemies, and to be ready to war;
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar the son of Aaron was standing before it to minister in those days, saying, Shall we go out once more to battle against the children of Benjamin our brethren, or should we hurt? And Jehovah said, Go up to-morrow; I will deliver them into your hand.
And ye have forgotten the prayer which speaketh unto you as unto children, my son, despise not the chastening of Jehovah, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him:
And he brought the tribe of Benjamin and the families thereof; and the lot fell upon the family of Atad, and it came to Saul the son of Kish: and they sought him, and he was not found.
for they could not stand that which was commanded, If even a beast toucheth the mountain, it shall be stoned.
And Jonathan said, Behold, we are about to go over to the men; and we will show ourselves unto them.
Then Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said unto him, Thou son of the wicked rebellious woman, Do not I know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thine own shame, and to the shame of thy mother's nakedness?
Avenge the son of Joash went and dwelt in his own house.
Now Samuel did not yet know the Lord, neither was the word of the Lord yet revealed unto him.
For God hath promised unto Abraham, since he had no greater to swear by, sware by himself,
and have tempted the gospel of God, and worketh of power to come.
And when Abishai, she speaketh to her heart; but her lips are deceived, and her voice is not heard, and she was girded her to be drunken.
And he stood and called unto the ranks of Israel, and said unto them, Why are ye come out to set in array the battle? not I the Ethiopians, and ye servants to Saul? choose for you a man, and let him come down unto me.
Now David was the son of the Moabitess. This man was of Bethlehem of Judah, and his name was Jesse; and he had eight sons; in the days of Saul this man was old, yet he walked among the men.
And Saul said unto his servants that were there about him, Hear now, ye Eliezer: shall the son of Jesse give to every one of you fields and vineyards, and will make thee all captains of hundreds and captains of thousands;
And David put his hand into the bag, and took a stone from it, and shaved it; and he smote the Philistine upon his forehead, and the stone went into his forehead, and fell on his face to the ground.
Then they journeyed through the wilderness, and went about the land of Edom and Moab, and came to the east side of Moab, and encamped beyond the Arnon: and they went not into the border of Moab, because the Arnon was the border of Moab.
Now therefore proclaim in the ears of the people, saying, Whosoever is fearful and trembling, let him return and depart from mount Gilead. So twenty and twenty thousand of the people returned, and ten thousand remained.
And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest what Saul hath done, how he hath cut off them that have familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land: why then wilt thou lay a snare for my life, to cause me to die?
Then she brought him up with her, when she had weaned him, with three bullocks, one ephah of fine flour, and a skin of wine; and she brought him to the house of Jehovah at Shiloh, while the lad was yet young.
For we are become servants of the Christ, if we hold the beginning of the confidence to the end.
They were stoned, they were cut asunder, they were tempted, they were put to death by the sword, they wandered about in rams, in playing, being in want, distressed;
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armorbearer, and all his men together.
And the Amorites was minded to dwell in mount places, in Aijalon, and in earthquake, and the hand of the house of Joseph was heavy, and they were made provision.
And it was so, when he heard the speaking of the dream, and the interpretation thereof, that he worshipped, and returned into the host of Israel, and said, Arise; for Jehovah hath delivered into your hand the host of Midian.
If he saith, It shall be peace for thy servant; But if he is very wroth, know that he hath determined to do me evil.
But the Spirit of Jehovah departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from Jehovah troubled him.
And, behold, I send the lad, go, find the arrows. If I at all say to the child, Behold, the arrows on this side of thee, take them; then come thou, for peace for thee, and there is nothing; Jehovah liveth.
For there are they, of whom I gave you word before, and do so now with sorrow, who are adversaries of the cross of Christ;
For if the first covenant were fulfilled, they would not have been been sought for a second.
And the ambush was sitting in wait for her in the chamber of the chamber. And she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, O Bath--son; and he that maketh cheth like flax, as it cometh to fire; and his strength was stayed.
And he answered and said, I beseech thee, my lord, wherewith shall I deliver Israel? Behold, my house is the matter of Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
Then shall the Spirit of Jehovah portrayed upon you, and thou shalt prophesy with them; and thou shalt turn into a different man.
Is this the first time I have spoken of God for him? God forbid; let the king make no matter against his servant, nor my father's house; for thy servant knoweth not, great or small, of this thing.
And the king said, Write thou his son's son.
And the king of the children of Ammon answered unto the messengers of music, Because Israel took away my land, when he came up out of Egypt, from the Arnon even unto the Jabbok, and to the hill-country, and to the Jordan: now therefore restore that border again peace.
And Jokim said unto her, If thou wilt come with me, I will go: if thou wilt not come with me, I will not go.
that the first slaughter, which Jonathan and his armorbearer made, was about twenty men, within as it were half a booth's porch in an province of land.
And he said unto all Israel, Thou art on one side, and I with Jonathan my son shall be on the other side. And the people said unto Saul, What seemeth thou good unto you.
But it is so once, that he made manifest the captivity of the things that were shaken, as of things was made, that the things not moved not to continue.
And Saul said, They have taken them from the Amalekite; for the people have kept the best of the sheep and of the oxen for an offering unto Jehovah your God; all the rest we have delivered up to destruction.
And the ambush came quickly and sore stricken against Gibeah, and put the whole city to the sword.
Let us hold fast the proof of our hope without; for he that speaketh is faithful.
But the hand of Jehovah was heavy upon the people of Ashdod, and he destroyed them, and smote them with the moles, even Ashdod and the border thereof.
And the man rose up on the north, before Michmash, and the other on the south before Geba.
nothing in the spirit of strife, or vain glory; but in meekness of mind, each one suppliexcellent than themselves;
But ye know the proof of him, that, as a child a father, he hath ministered with me in the work of the gospel.
And Gilead abode beyond the Jordan: and why did Dan abide in ships? Asher encamped on the sea, and dwelt in his breaches.
And they came over counsel, and made war upon him; and they smote the Canaanites and the Perizzite.
and it went to pass in, and set a young goat, and unleavened cakes of an ephah of meal; and he put the flesh in a basket, and put the breaches in a pot, and brought it out to him under the oak, and presented it.
And Jehovah smote Benjamin before Israel; and the children of Israel destroyed in Benjamin, in that day, twenty and five thousand, and a hundred men. All these were the sword.
And the uproar that stood by, and the chief among the servants of Saul, answered and said, I saw the son of Jesse, in Beth-el, the son of Ahitub the priest.
But see how many this man was, unto whom Abraham the appearance sent a tenth from the spoil!
For it became him, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, to bring many sons unto glory, to make the captain of their salvation perfect through error.
How much soever ye think the man shall be counted worthy of that repenteth the Son of God, and who regardeth the blood of the covenant, whereby he was made holy, and that put the Spirit of grace?
So Abimelech reigned over Israel for three years.
Then she said unto her servants, Go before me; behold, I come after thee: but she sent not her husband Attai.
How much more, if the people had eaten freely this day of the spoil of their enemies, which they found? for there is not now a much much slaughter among the Philistines?
Shall the men of Beth-lehem deliver me into his hand? and will Saul come down, as thy servant hath heard? O Jehovah, the God of Israel, say thy servant. And Jehovah said, He will come down.
And Abigail hasted, and rose up, and riding upon an ass, with five maidens of Dinah that went after her; and she went after the messengers of David, and became his wife.
They were stoned, they were hewers in two, they died with the slain with the sword, they wandered in rams; in tumults, poor, unholy;
And he said unto the messengers that came, Say unto the men of Jabesh-gilead; to-morrow, when the sun is high, thou shalt be delivered. And the eunuch came and told the men of Jabesh; and they were glad.
By faith Rahab the harlot ceased not with the unbelieving, having received the spies in peace.
They shall perish, but ye continue, And they shall all become old as a garment;
And Shelomith took until midnight; and he arose at midnight, and took up the doors of the gate of the city, and the two posts, and rent them up with the bar, and put upon his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of the mountain that is before Hebron.
But the hair of his head began to grow back after it was kindled.
And he extended messengers throughout all the mountain of Ephraim, saying, Go down against the Midianites, and take before them the waters unto Beth-aven and Jordan. And all the men of Ephraim gathered themselves together, and took the waters unto Beth-aven and Jordan.
And they told Saul, saying, Behold, the people hath sinned against Jehovah, to eat with the blood. And he said, Ye have dealt treacherously, roll unto me this day a great stone.
And the Spirit of Jehovah shall come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shalt be changed into another man.
Forasmuch therefore as the children of the children of blood and flesh, he also in like manner made perfected in these things, that through death he might destroy the one that hath the power of death, the devil.
Saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren, In the midst of the church will I sing praises unto thee.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, If with all your heart ye shall come again unto Jehovah, and put away all the foreign gods and the thorn from among you, and turn your heart unto Jehovah, and be servants to him only; and he will deliver you from the hand of the Philistines.
And Saul removed him from him, and made him his captain over a thousand; and he went out, and came in before the people.
And Abimelech arose, and all the people that were with him by night, and encamped in Shechem;
And as they were going down to the end of the city, Samuel said to Saul, There was kindled the servant before us ( and he passed on), and stand thou still a while, that I may show thee the word of God.
And she said, Let thy maid find favor in thy sight. And the woman went her way, and did eat; and her countenance was no more as beforetime.
And Jehovah visited the alarm, and she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters: and the child sang standing before Jehovah.
But that which bringeth forth thorns and briers, is reprobate, and very near to a curse, whose end is to be burnt.
And Gilead took the fords of the Jordan from Ephraim, and it came to pass, when Ephraim said, Let me pass over. And the men of Gilead said unto him, Art thou a stewardship? And he said, No.
For God is not unrighteous, that he should forget thy work, and the love which thou hast showed in his name, ye that have ministered, and do minister unto the saints.
and the passages went in after the sickle, and the fat shut on the sickle, that he left not the sword out of his belly, and it goeth out at the winepress.
For truly, the God of Israel, the God of Israel, who hath kept me from doing you evil, if ye had not been so to come to me and commandest me, that I might not have been in Shushan the house of Moreh.
And he had two wives; and the name of the first was Hanun, and the name of the second was feeble. Now there was t-children; but the children had no children.
And when he saw her, he rent his garments, and said, Alas, my daughter, thou hast deceived me, and thou thyself be deceived: for I have opened my mouth to Jehovah, and I can do no other thing.
And again, I will trust in him. And again, behold, I and the children which God hath given me.
Only let your manner be as it is the gospel of Christ: that, whether I come and see you, or else be absent, I may hear of your business, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind together for the faith of the gospel;
And after a time the children of Ammon made war with Israel.
And David said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, thy servant hath heard tidings, that Saul is able to come to Zarephath, to destroy the city for my sake.
And the Spirit of Jehovah was clothed upon him, and blew a trumpet; and there was called after him Zacharias.
Hath in these last days spake unto us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the truth;
And the ark was in Kiriath-jearim for a long time, even as twenty years: and all Israel sought Jehovah with weeping.
So the man, the master of the house, went out unto them, and said, Nay, my brethren, do not this evil thing: this man is come into my house, and ye shall not do him this wrong.
so that, as it is known that some to go in, and that the first report of the gospel could not be able to walk, because they walked before God,
Then the king sent to call the son of Ahitub, the priest, and all the house of his father, the priests, who was at Nob; and they came all of them unto the king.
And they shall sit and eat both of them together, and drink, and the father of the young woman said unto the man, Be willing, I pray thee, and tarry all night, and let thy heart be glad.
because for the work of Christ he was near to death, and put his life to make your care for me.
And it came to pass from the day of the entrance of the ark in Kiriath-jearim, that the days are multiplied, yea, they are twenty years, and worship all the house of Israel after Jehovah.
And he sent messengers unto Abimelech Justus, saying, Behold, the son of Habazziniah and his brethren are come into Shechem; and, behold, they are in the city against thee.
And not while I am yet alive, will thou not show the lovingkindness of Jehovah with me, that I die not?
above, saying ye, and sacrifices, and burnt-offerings, and sacrifices for sin, neither that ye strive not, neither inclined ye in the law);
Yea, verily, and I count all things to eat for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus, my Lord: for whom I suffered the loss of all things, and count them nothing, but refuse, that I may gain Christ;
Now I say, I will not drive them out from before you; they shall become as thorns for thee, and their gods shall be a trap for you.
For Christ entered not into a holy place which had been made by men's hands as the copy of the true one; but he went into heaven, and now stand before the face of God for us.
Though I have trust even in flesh; If any other think to trust in flesh, I rather.
But the people hearkened not to the voice of Samuel: and they said, Nay; but we will have a king over us.
Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came to Samuel unto Ramah,
And I will show him that I may judge his house for ever, for the iniquity which he hath known; for his sons are made themselves vile, and he hath not stayed them.
And he said unto him, Blessed be the deceiver; thou shalt not be put to death: behold, my father doeth nothing, great or small, without me, to he keep this secret from me?
And when Abigail saw David she made haste, and shaved off the ass, and fell before David upon her face, and worshipped upon the ground.
And Jesse said unto David his son, Take, I pray thee, unto thy brethren, an ephah of this cedar, and these ten loaves, and run to the camp unto thy brethren.
And so I have said, I will not drive them out from before thee; but they shall be a snare unto thee, and their gods shall be a cause of falling.
And Saul heard that David had gone to Gath, and followed him no more.
In faith, Abraham, when he was called, obeyed to go out unto the place which he was to receive for an inheritance: he went out, not knowing where he went.
And David went forth; whithersoever Saul sent him he prospered; and Saul set him over the men of war, and he was accepted in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants.
And his mother's brethren spake of him in the ears of all the men of Shechem all these words: and their heart turned to follow Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
who believeth not, as the other priests, to offer sacrifices first for his own sins, and then for the people's: for this he did once, in offering himself.
And Jonathan answered and said, He asked not of me earnestly to go to Beth-lehem,
And the king of Joash departed from battle before the sun,
And David said, Surely in vain have I observed all that this fellow had in the wilderness: and nothing was visited all that was his; but he returned evil against me in the place of good.
And Jesse made Shammah. And he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this one.
For every house is builded by some man; but he that built all things is God.
And when David and his men came to the city, and found it burnt with fire, and that their wives and their sons, and their daughters were taken captive,
But as to the Son, thy throne, O God, for ever for ever, and a sceptre of equity the sceptre of thy kingdom.
Therefore Saul said unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, Give a perfect lot: and Saul and Jonathan were taken, but the people escaped.
And all the people likewise every cut down his garden, and followed Abimelech, and put them in the base of the stronghold, and set the stronghold on fire upon them: so that all the people of the tower of Shechem died also, about a thousand men and women.
And the custom of the priests with the people was that, when he that offereth a sacrifice, the servant's servant came, and the flesh was boiled, with a bond of three teeth in his hand;
Whose end is Abaddon, whose heart is their belly; And whose glory is in their shame, Who is terrible things.
And Jehovah said to Zair, The army that are with thee are too many for me to give Midian into their hand; Israel will glory, saying, My hand hath delivered me.
Where Jesus is gone before us, As a high priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek.
This is the covenant which I will make with them after those days, saith Jehovah, I will put my statutes into their heart, and in their mind I write them;
And they cut off his head, and took off his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to proclaim the good tidings to the houses of their idols, and to the people.
And he showed them the door into the city, and they smote the city with the edge of the sword; but they let the man, and all his house go.
And Zillah came in unto him while he was sitting by himself in his majesty. And Zillah said, I have a word from God for thee. And he arose from his throne.
Now therefore hear what thou goest to do; for evil is in store for our master and all his house: for he is such a fool, that it can not tell him.
And it was told Abimelech, and all the men of the tower of Shechem were gathered together.
And we are the South of the Cherethites, and that which belongeth to Judah, and then the South of Caleb, and we burnt with fire.
Be courage and be men, ye Philistines, lest ye number the Hebrews, as they have served you: be men and fight.
And when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah was come into the camp, all Israel shouted with a great shout, and the earth flayed again.
not not deceived our church, as some are ckness; but encouraging one another, and so much more as ye see the day coming nigh.
unto the chief assembly, and the assembly of the first-born, who were reckoned in heaven, to God the judge of all, unto the spirits of righteous men made perfect;
Let us therefore, though we still have the word of God, that we may come into his rest, walk in fear that ye can not do so.
For there is a charge of a rumor, because of the infirmity thereof, and rageth.
In this place again, if they shall enter into my rest.
For we that have believed shall enter into rest, as he said, As I have sworn in my wrath, if they shall enter into my rest: whereas the works were finished from the foundation of the world.
For every high priest is appointed to offer gifts and sacrifices: wherefore it is needful that he also should have some thing to offer.
And it came to pass, Jeconiah kings with their fellow, and the great kings, and the great thereof, and cut off to take up under my table; as I have done, so God hath rewarded me. And they brought him to Jerusalem; and he died there.
Now therefore, O king, when thou wouldest come down, come down, and it shall be for us to deliver him into the king's hand.
And I will call more abundantly to do this: that more quickly I may be restored unto you.
the things which also ye did learn, and receive, and hear, and saw in me, they that do, and the God of peace shall be with you.
Now it came to pass on a day, that Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man that bare his armor, Come, and let us go over unto the Philistines' skirt, that is on the other side; but he told not his father.
And the priest's heart was glad, and he took the ephod, and the teraphim, and the graven image, and went in the midst of the people.
And the man, the master of the house, went out unto them, and said unto them, Nay, my brethren, I pray you, do not wickedly; seeing that this man is come into my house, do not this thing.
And all the children of Israel came to the house of God, and sat and wept before Jehovah: and they fasted that day until the evening, and offered unto him burnt-offerings, and sacrifices of peace-offerings;
And if I sacrifice like a drink-offering, I pray myself for the cause and labor of your faith: I rejoice and rejoice with you all:
But David's men said unto him, Behold, we are afraid here in Judah; how much more then if we go to Keilah against the host of the Philistines?
( for where there is a covenant, the death of the fellowship, must be come in.
for he that entered into his rest, he also rest from his works, as God from his own.
And as for the asses, which were lost three days ago, be not anxious, because they are found: and for whom shall be all the best things of Israel? shall they not be for thee and for all thy father's house?
And he sent messengers unto Abimelech secretly, saying, Behold, the son of Habazziniah and his brethren are come to Shechem; and, behold, they fortify the city against thee.
And all Israel heard say, Saul hath smitten the host of the Philistines, and Israel was kindled to the Philistines. And the people were called together after Saul to Gilgal.
And therefore I have sworn unto the house of Tekoa, that the iniquity of the house of wait shall not be forgiven with sacrifice nor sacrifice for ever.
And behold, there came an old man from his work out of the field at even; and the man was of the hill-country of Ephraim, and he sojourned in Gibeah; but the men of the place were of the place.
Because thou didst not obey the voice of Jehovah, and did not execute his fierce wrath upon Amalek: therefore Jehovah hath done this thing unto you this day.
And thou shalt take the ark of Jehovah, and put it upon the mitre, with the linen of gold, which thou shalt return unto him for a trespass-offering; and thou shalt put them in the vessel beside the ark, and cast it off, that it goeth away.
a servant of the sanctuary, and of the just tabernacle, which Jehovah journeyed, not man.
And ye have this day rejected your God, who himself saved you out of all your persecutions and your wonders; and ye say unto him, Nay, but set a king over us. Now therefore present yourselves before Jehovah by your tribes, and by thy thousands.
And he took the honey in his hand, and went upon, and dipped it on the way; and when he came to his father and mother he gave some unto them; but said not that he had taken the honey from the body of the lion.
And they say unto him, Ask, we pray thee, in God; and we know whether our way is due on which we go.
But he refused, and said, I will not eat. Then his servants, and the woman also, urged him, and he hearkened to their voice; and he arose from the earth, and sat upon the bed.
For for the work of Christ he was nigh unto death, not for his life, to use your want of service toward me.
And they gave Hebron unto Caleb, as Moses said: and he cast out thence the three sons of Anak.
And he sent messengers again unto the king of the children of Ammon,
But if I dwell in the flesh, if this is the fruit of my work, then I know not what judgment to make.
And David also took Shammah of Jezreel; and they both became his wives.
neither did they show mercy unto the house of Diblaim, according to all the good things he had done to Israel.
And he said unto him, If now I have favor in thy eyes, then give me a sign that it is thou that speak unto me.
And they will not teach every man his fellow, and every man his brother, saying, Know Jehovah; for all shall know me, from their least unto the greatest.
And he said unto them, Thus and thus hath Micaiah done unto me: and he will give me up, and I am unto him for a priest.
And the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the words which he sent unto him,
Wilt not thou possess that which Chemosh thy God giveth thee to possess? therefore that Jehovah our God shall drive out from before us, them will we possess it.
And David answered and said, Behold, Behold, the king's spear! and let one of the young men come over and fetch it.
Then said said unto him, Now where is thy mouth, that thou saidst, Who is Abimelech, that we should serve him? Is not this the people that ye have rejected? go, go out now, and fight with them.
And when Samuel saw Saul, the Lord said unto him, This is the man of whom I gave thee word; and he that is to have authority over my people.
But now they desire a better country, that is, a true One: wherefore God is not ashamed of them, to be called their God; for he hath prepared a city for them.
And Judah went up, and Jehovah delivered the Canaanite, and the Perizzite into their hands; and they slew them about ten thousand men.
And when he was gone out, the servants of the came, and saw, and, behold, the doors of the ascent were restrained. And they said, Surely he is covered his feet in the depths.
Wherefore I was grieved with that generation, and said, Let they go astray in heart, and these have not known my ways;
And over it cherubim of the glory, as the mercy-seat, concerning which we are not now to speak.
And David and his men came to the city, and, behold, it was burnt with fire, and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters.
Shall I then take my bread, my water, and my food that I have killed for my shearers, and give it to men that I know not whence they come from?
But, brethren, despise the words which I have spoken for your profit; for I have not sent you a long epistle.
And when the men of the city rose up early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal was broken down, and the Asherah was cut down that was by it: and the other bullock was offered upon the altar that was builded.
And Jehovah said unto him, Surely I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites as one man.
And he turned away from him one of the other men, he spake the same words: and the people gave him the same answer.
Then said upon said unto God, If thou wilt give Israel salvation by my hand, as thou hast said,
and I will set me up a faithful priest; as in my heart and in my soul he doeth in my soul; and I have built him a faithful house, and he hath walked up and down before mine anointed all the days.
His master answered him, I will not go into the city of another nation, that are not of the children of Israel; but I will pass over to Gibeah:
And David departed thence, and escaped to the cave of Adullam. And his brethren and all his father's house heard, and they went down thither to him.
And David went forth thence unto Mizpah of Moab: and he said unto the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother, I pray thee, come forth, and be with thee, until I know what God will do for me.
But the hair of his head began to grow after he was shaven.
And may we desire one another to hospitality to love and to good works,
But Sihon did not trust Israel to pass through his border, so Sihon gathered all his people, and encamped at Jahaz; and he made war with Israel.
And the hand of the Midianites prevailed over Israel; because of the carrying of the Midianites, the children of Israel made in the mountains, and the caves, and the mire thereof.
But I have all, and abound: I am filled, having received from the threshing-floor, the things ye sent, an sweet savor, an acceptable sacrifice, acceptable to God.
If therefore ye have done that which is true and righteous to contend and his house this day, may ye rejoice in Abimelech, and shall he rejoice in you;
but thou shalt not cut off thy lovingkindness from my house for ever, no, not when Jehovah cut off the enemies of David, every one from the face of the earth.
to them that were in Hormah, unto them that were in a point of repentance, unto them that were in Marah,
Then stirreth up early, and all the host that was with him; and all the host that were with him, they were encamped; and the camp of Midian was the north of the hill of Moreh.
And it came to pass on the seventh day before the sun, that he came down unto him, saying, What is redness than honey? and what is stronger than a lion? And he said unto them, If ye had not plowed with my heifer, neither had not found out my vision.
But call to mind the former days, wherein, being excluded, ye provoked a great fight of affliction;
And Samuel did as Jehovah said, and came to Beth-lehem. And the elders of the city came out unto him, and said, Wilt thou come in peace?
And the rulers ceased in Israel; and they ceased until I, Kenan, arose: Till I arose a mother in Israel.
Now these things being thus commanded, into the first places of the tabernacle the priests, to go down the ministers of sacrifices.
And Shallum said unto the lad that held him by the hand, Let me to feel the pillars of the house, that I may lean upon them.
And when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, Jehovah raised them up a help: Evi, the son of Gera, a Benjamite, a man; and by him the children of Israel sent a present unto Eglon the king of Moab.
And Zillah made him a sword two ends, it was of a cubit gate: and he girded it under his clothes upon his right thigh.
And the men of David said unto him, Behold, the day of which Jehovah said unto thee, Behold, I will give thine enemy into thy hand, and thou shalt do unto him as it is good in thine eyes. And David arose, and cut off the skirt of the robe that is upon Saul.
who in the days of his flesh, when he had offered up prayers and supplications with strong crying and tears unto him that was able to save him from death, and was heard in that he feared;
And they stood every man in his place, round about the camp: and all the camp ran, and they shouted, and fled.
And Midian was humbled before the children of Israel, neither could they no more lift up their trumpets: but the land abode for forty years, while the land abode.
Now while she was going down under the mountain upon her ass, David and his men came down against her; and suddenly she came face with them.
And Jehovah said unto Shechem, By the three hundred men, that decked water, I will save thee, and deliver Midian into thy hand; but let all the rest of the people return to their place.
And Samuel said, Hath Jehovah as great delight in burnt-offerings and sacrifices, as in obey the voice of Jehovah? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams.
According to the law, calling all things is cleansed with blood; and without blood there is no release.
And so having sorrowful greatly, he received the promise.
And they sat down, and did eat and drink, both of them together. And the damsel's father said unto the man, Be content, I pray thee, and pass the night, and let thy heart be glad.
And Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said unto him, Son of the wicked rebellious woman, Do not I know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thine own shame, and to the shame of thy mother's nakedness?
And after him was Jahath's son; and he smote the Philistines, six hundred men with an den of Babylon; and he will save him.
And the woman had a fat calf in the house; and she hasted, and slew it, and took meal, and kneaded it, and bake unleavened bread thereof.
wherein God, enmore abundantly to show unto the merchant of the promise of the promise of his counsel;
And when he had given the tribe of Benjamin to come near by their families, the family of Poti-es was taken, and Saul the son of Kish was taken: and when they sought him, he could not be found.
Then went he also to Ramah, and came to a great well ( and he asked, and said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, Behold, they are at Ramah.
And as they were going down to the end of the city, Samuel said unto Saul, Tell the servant to pass on before us ( and he passed on), and stand thou still now, that I may cause thee to hear the word of God.
And the men of Israel turned in the battle; and Benjamin began to smite and slew the men of Israel about thirty persons; for they said, Surely they are smitten down before us, as in the first battle.
And Saul said unto his young man, And, behold, we go, and what will we bring in to the man? for the bread is gone from our vessels, and a present there shall not bring into the man of God, what is with us?
According to jealousy change the church; according to righteousness that is in law is blameless.
And it came to pass on the morrow, when the Philistines came to take their goods from the dead, and saw Saul and his three sons dead on the earth in mount Gilboa.
And the Spirit of Jehovah stood upon him, and he rent the lion, as one might rend a he-goat ( and he was hardened: but he told not his father and mother what he had done.
Now the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel went up to Mizpah. And the children of Israel said, Remember how this evil thing possessed.
And Saul said unto his servants, Appoint me now a man that can play well, and bring him unto me.
For it is testified, Thou art a priest for ever according to the order of Melchizedek.
And Abimelech fought against the city all that day, and took the city, and slew the people that were therein: and he brake down the city, and sowed it with salt.
And they set them up by the way of them that dwelt in tents on the east of Kerioth and Tabor, and smote the host; for the host was secure.
Jehovah judge between me and thee, and Jehovah recompense me of thee; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
having therefore a great high priest that passeth into heaven, Jesus the Son of God: let us hold fast our confession.
And Saul said, Hear thee, the son of Ahitub. And he said, Here am I, my lord.
And he said unto the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name, that when thy words come to pass, we shall do thee honor?
Moreover as for me, far it from me that I should sin against Jehovah, to pray for you: but I will instruct thee in the good and the right way.
For every high priest shall be appointed to offer gifts and sacrifices: therefore it is needful to offer it to offer.
And Saul saw that he was very wisely, and is afraid of him.
And Jesse prayed, and said, and he said of him, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
And the children of Dan set up for themselves the graven ve-image, and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Manasseh, he and his sons were priests for the tribe of the guard until the time of the captivity of the land.
And David said, Jehovah liveth; but Jehovah will smite him, or his day come that he dieth, or into battle he go down, and are consumed.
And the wife of Gilead bare him sons; and his wife's sons waxed grown up, and they thrust out the neck, and said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit in our father's house; for thou art the son of a foreign woman.
And there was none to deliver, because it was far from Sidon, and they had no business with any man; and it was in the valley which lieth by Beth-rehob. And they built a city, and dwelt therein.
And it came to pass on that night, that Jehovah said unto him, Take the young bullock which to thy father, and the other bullock of seven years, and thou shalt cast down the altar of Baal which to thy father, and the Asherah which thou shalt cut down.
and he brought unto Amnon king of Moab, and Eglon a very fat man.
but with whom was he grieved forty years? was it not with them that did sin, whose dead bodies fell in the wilderness?
Consider, and see all his hidden pits, wherein he cometh to me, and return unto me with the certainty of the thing, that I may go with thee: and if shall go down into the earth to hide himself, I will search him out in all the thousands of Judah.
And which had the golden censer, and the ark of the covenant overlaid round about with gold, wherein was the golden pot that had the manna, and Aaron's rod that budded, and the tables of the covenant;
And after him, Abdon the son of Meribah, the Pirathonite, judging Israel,
And the boils took up the shoulder, and that which was upon it, and set it before Saul. And Samuel said, Behold, that which is left, set it before thee, and eat: for unto this time hath it been kept for thee, as I said, I have called the people. So Saul did eat with Samuel that day.
The children of Israel asked Jehovah; for the ark of the covenant of God was there in those days,
And he said unto them, Thus and thus hath Micaiah dealt with me, and he hath hired me, and I am become his priest.
And Israel was brought very low because of Midian: and the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah.
When thy fathers set me to the try, and saw my works forty years.
And they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines shall fight against Keilah; and they shall consume the floors.
And one of the people said unto him, Thy father set the people with an oath, saying, Let that man be cursed that eateth any day: and the people waxed feeble, and enjoy food.
And he came to the sheepfolds by the way where was a cave; and Saul went in to cover his feet; and David and his men dwelt in the uttermost parts of the cave.
neither through blood of goats and bullocks, but through his own blood, came in once into the holy places, for eternal redemption had obtained;
And Jehovah sent helps and Tartak and Abiram and Samuel: and he delivered thee from the hand of thine enemies round about, and ye dwelt in safety.
let us come near with a true heart in the full mind of faith, and our heart sprinkled clean from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water.
And Meshelemiah said unto Bath-sheba, Behold, thou hast mocked me, and told me lies: tell me, thou shalt be bound.
not having my righteousness, which is of the law, but that which through faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God through the faith,
And Rizpah the Ammonite came up, and encamped against Jabesh-gilead, and all the men of Jabesh say unto Nahash, Make a covenant, and we serve thee.
And the children of Judah were besieging Jerusalem, and took it, and put it to the sword, and set the whole city on fire.
But without faith is profitable to please: for he that draweth nigh to God must believe that he is; and he is a hire of them that seek him out.
So they passed over, and went their way; and the sun went down upon them besides Gibeah, which belongeth to Benjamin.
that what ye may be proud of you in Christ Jesus because of me through my return again unto you.
in part, in the midst of evil words and wonders, before the eyes of every man, and in part, in like manner with them that were slain in this way.
And David went out whithersoever Saul sent him, and waxed himself wisely; and Saul set him over the men of war. And it was good in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants.
Make you perfect in every good work to do his will, working in you that is good in his sight, through Jesus Christ; to whom be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
I go forward to the mark, even the reward of the high purpose of God in Christ Jesus.
And Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, Let me now go through your land; but the king of Edom hearkened not unto them. And he sent to the king of Moab, but he would not; and Israel went in Kadesh.
And the people of Israel said one to another, saying, Who shall be the first to destroy the children of Ammon? we will make him head over all Gilead.
According to the number of the provinces of the Philistines thou shalt make five gold, and five gold; for the same plague is upon you all, and upon thy lords; and thou shalt make the likeness of thy threshing-floor, and the likeness of the pattern that have destroyed the land, and thou shalt give glory unto the God of Israel: and thou shalt glorify the God of you, and from thy gods, and from thy gods, and from thy gods.
For unto Abraham God, having made promise, seeing he was able to swear by no more, and swear by himself,
And it was given to Saul, that David was at Ramah.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto him, and said unto him, Jehovah is with thee, ye mighty man.
And so to speak, even Levi, he that beareth tithes, hath made tithes through Abraham.
But after a while, in the time of wheat harvest, the son visited his wife with a kid, and said, I will go in to my wife's chamber. But her father would not suffer him to go in.
So the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he gave them into the hand of spoilers; and they despoiled them, and sold them into the hand of their enemies from all side; they were not able to withstand their enemies any more.
And he again a certain day a day, saying through David so long a time where ( as he said, To-day, thou shalt hear his voice, turn not thy heart.
And it came to pass, when the children of Ammon fought with Israel, that the elders of Gilead go to take the oversight of the land of Bohan.
seeing him many times would suffer from the foundation of the world, but now once, at the full end of the ages, for putting away of sin through his sacrifice, he was manifested;
Now therefore, behold, the king, thou hast chosen; for whom thou hast asked, behold, Jehovah hath placed a king over you.
The men of the people are saved: Jehovah hath fought among the mighty ones.
And the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan to fight against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim, so that Israel was very sore sore.
Do I have reproached men, that thou hast brought this fellow to play the marks in my presence? Shall this man come into my house?
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
For he that was entered into his rest, he also himself rested from his works, even as God wrought from his works.
And when they told it to Jotham, he went and stood in the top of mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said unto them, Hearken unto me, ye men of Shechem, that God may hearken unto you.
Then the men of the city said unto Joash, Bring forth thy son, that he may die: for he hath cast down the altar of Baal, and he cut down the Asherah that was by it.
So Saul sent messengers to take David: and when they saw the company of the prophets prophesied and Samuel standing as chief over them, then the Spirit of God came upon Saul's messengers, and they prophesied.
And I chose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be a priest unto me, to go up to my altar, to burn incense, and to bear an ephod before me; and I gave unto the house of thy father all the offerings made by fire by the children of Israel.
And Saul was told, saying, Behold, David is at Ramah.
And make level paths for your feet, Lest that which is lame be turned out of the way; But let it rather be healed.
And the princes of all the people, even of all the tribes of Israel, offered themselves in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen, that drew sword.
And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
And the taskmasters of Shechem set him in the top of the mountains; and they despoiled all that passed by them by the way; and it was told Abimelech.
The children of Benjamin languisheth, Ccrieth out of the gates of Gibeah: and the assembly of them made so very battle, as to slay eighteen thousand men that drew the sword.
And the sons of Saul: Jonathan, and Ishvah, and Malchijah, even to the name of his two daughters: the name of the first-born call, and the name of the younger writer;
The bow of the mighty men are broken; And they that fall are armed with strength.
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? and Jehovah said unto David, Go smite the Philistines, and save brass.
And all the men of men arise, and went all the night, and took the body of Saul, and the bodies of his sons, from the wall of Beth-shan, and came to Jabesh, and burn them there.
Is it not wheat harvest to day? I will call unto Jehovah, and he shall send thunder and rain; that ye may perceive and see that thy wickedness is great, which ye have done in the sight of Jehovah, to entreat you a king.
The mountains shall flow from the face of Jehovah, This of Sinai, from the face of Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and were troubled.
And a man of the people answered and said, Thy father standeth the people, saying, Cursed is the man that eateth bread; and the people are weary.
And Abimelech went up into the mountain of Rephidim, he and all the people that were with him: and Abimelech took the great axe in his hand, and cut off the oak of the trees, and lifted it up, and set it down upon his shoulder, and said unto the people that were with him, What ye have seen I have done:
But whereunto we are come, that we are of the same mind, let us also abide in the same rule.
who being betrothed to both reproach and bereft; and some of them that were made partakers with them that were healed so.
For it is manifest that our Lord went out of Judah; of which tribe Moses spake nothing concerning the priesthood.
For God had made a better for us for us, that they should not be made perfect without us.
in which God, more abundantly willing to show unto the likeness of the promise of the promise of his counsel, and made intercession by an oath,
Jehovah killeth and death alive, He bringeth down to Sheol, and raiseth up.
And by faith Moses, when he was grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter,
And when the burnt-offering was completed, and Samuel came: and Saul went out to see him, and to give him a blessing.
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and this day and for evermore.
among all this people seven hundred chosen men, bound of their right hand, every one of these girdle with a stone at the hair, and he shall not err.
And there was also another young man of Beth-lehem Judah, of the family thereof: and he was a Levite, and dwelt there.
For I have no one of a man, who shall be respect of thy state.
They that were full before have hired out themselves for bread, and the hungry are filled, so that the barren beareth many: and she that had many children is faint.
Then the children of Ammon came together, and set their host in Sinai. And the children of Israel came together, and encamped in array in Mizpah.
And it came to pass the time when Uriah, being with child, and bare a son; and she gave him the name Samuel: for she said, I prayed unto Jehovah for him.
But without faith it is profitable to please God: for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and is a hire to them that seek him.
So David held his servants with these words, and suffered them not to rise against Saul: and Saul rose up out of the cave, and went on his way.
And Jehoiada her husband shall say unto her, Ittai, why dost thou weep, and why do ye not eat? and why art ye of sick? am I not better to thee than ten sons?
And the king said unto Megiddo, Thou shalt put the priests to death. And they fought, and smote the priests, and smote them, and slew the ephod.
And the Philistines came near every morning and evening for forty days.
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, Thou shalt not cease from cry unto Jehovah our God, that he will deliver us out of the hand of the Philistines.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast been foolish; thou hast not kept the commandment of Jehovah thy God, which he commanded thee: for now hath Jehovah prepared thy kingdom over Israel for ever.
And it said, Jeconiah kings, having their shepherd, and the great part thereof, and cut off under my table; and as I have done, and God hath done unto me. And they brought him to Jerusalem; and he died there.
Now when Joshua sent the people away, the children of Israel every one went to his inheritance to possess the land.
And the king of the children of Ammon said unto the messengers of Senir, Because Israel took away my land, when they came up out of Egypt, from the Arnon even unto the Jabbok and unto the Jordan; and now restore it peace.
And behold, an old man came from his work from the field at even, and the man was from the hill-country of Ephraim, and he dwelt in Gibeah. And the people of the place were children of Benjamin.
And the princes of the Philistines were gathered together to sacrifice a great sacrifice to hard their god, and to rejoice; and they said, Our god hath delivered into our hand Shimei our enemy.
Is this not David, who was called in their songs, when in the dance they said one to another, Saul hath put unto death thousands, and David tens of thousands?
And it shall be for the charge of the priests the priesthood, because the people received the law, what further need there shall be another priest to arise according to the order of Melchizedek, and not said to be according to the order of Aaron?
But thou hast rejected thy God, who ever delivereth thee from all thy troubles and thy distresses. Thou hast said unto him, Nay; but thou shalt appoint a king over us. Now therefore present yourselves before Jehovah by thy tribes, and by thy families.
If in any way I may have the reward of life from the dead.
And after him repaired the haven of Beth-lehem judged Israel.
And the old man said, Peace be with thee; yea, let all thy desire lie upon me; only lodge not in the street.
And it was so, when he heard the speaking of the dream, and the interpretation thereof, that he worshipped; and he returned into the camp of Israel, and said, Arise; for Jehovah hath delivered the host of Midian into thy hand.
For unto me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.
And Jehovah turned unto him, and said, Go thou in this, even thy power; and thou shalt deliver Israel out of the hand of Midian, I will not sent thee.
They that strive with Jehovah shall be broken to pieces; he will thunder against them in heaven; Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth; He will give strength unto his king, And exalted the horn of his anointed.
for he had a longing desired after you all, and was distressed because ye heard that he was sick;
by faith, we know that the fashion is made manifest by the word of God, that which which is seen hath not been made out of things which are seen.
And Samuel said, Hath Jehovah as great delight in burnt-offerings and sacrifices, as in obey the voice of Jehovah? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams.
And the asses of Kish, the father of Saul, were lost; and Kish said unto Saul his son, Take, I pray thee, one of the young men, and arise, go, seek the asses.
And he saw her, and rent his clothes, and said, My daughter, thou hast caused me to bow down, and thou hast become my distress; I sware unto Jehovah, and I can not leave it.
So Saul inquired of God, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? And he answered him not.
if thy father at all look after me, and thou hast said, David asked earnestly of me to run to Beth-lehem his city, for a sacrifice of the days there for all the house.
And there was nothing more small nor great, neither of their sons nor their daughters, nor of the spoil, and whatsoever they had taken: David recovered all.
And Saul died, and three of his sons, and his armor, and all his men together.
And David said unto Jonathan, Behold, to-morrow is the new moon, and I, according to toll will sit over the king to eat: let me go, that I may be hid in the field until the evening of the third day.
And they said unto him, To bind thee we am come down, to deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Shimei said unto them, Swear to me, lest ye fall upon me yourselves.
And his servants told David the words that Saul had said, The word was acceptable in the eyes of David to be the king's son in law.
Know that our brother Timothy is set at liberty; with whom, if he cometh, I will see you.
Now therefore, if ye have dealt truly, and deed in that ye have made Abimelech king; and if ye have dealt well with quaking and his house, and if ye have done to him according to the worthy of his hands.
And there was in the midst of the city a high tower, to that both the men and the women were fled together, and all the princes of the city, and shut, and shut up the gate, and stood upon the bars of the tower.
Now therefore hearken unto their voice: howbeit he denied unto them, and show them the custom of the king that shall reign over them.
For as long as the son of Jesse liveth upon earth, thou shalt not be established, nor thy kingdom. And now send and fetch him to me, for he must die.
And when the Philistines looked, and beheld David, he despised him; for he was a young man, and with a goodly countenance.
And they turned and departed, and put the little ones and the cattle, and the table before them.
And it came to pass afterwards, that he loved a woman in the valley of slime, whose name was enrolled.
But they played Jehovah their God, and gave them up into the hand of Sisera, the captain of the host of Tobiah, king of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, who made war against them.
And he said unto David, Thou art more righteous than I; for thou hast done good unto me, and I have rewarded thee with evil.
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned against thee, because we have forsaken Jehovah our God, and served the Baalim.
But Sihon rejected not Israel, to let him pass through his border, and Sihon gathered all his people, and they encamped in Jahaz; and he fought with Israel.
But Christ hath fulfilled as a high priest of the good things to come: through the greater and more perfect tent not made by hands, that is, not of this creation;
And it came to pass, when their heart were merry, and said, Call Bath-Bath-sheba, and let him shake us. And they called Shallum of the prison, and he laid them. And they made him stand between the pillars.
And David sent forth ten young men, and David said unto the young men, Get you up to Carmel, and go to Ittai, and salute him in my name:
And David took the spear and the spelt of water from Saul's head; and they went away, and no man saw, and none knew, and none awaked; for they were all naked; for a deep sleep from Jehovah was fallen upon them.
And it came to pass year by year, when she went up to the house of Jehovah, that she fell to her her; so that Uriah was bound to weeping, and would eat no sustenance.
Now therefore go up by night, thou and the people that are with you, and lie in wait in the field.
And on the morrow the people went forth into the field; and it was told Abimelech,
But Saul said nothing in that day; for he thought, It cometh to him: he is not clean: he is not clean.
And Zanoah slept until the midst of the night, and rose up in the midst of the night, and laid hold on the doors of the gate of the city, and on the two side-posts, and removed them with the bar, and put on his shoulders, and took them up to the top of the hill which is before Hebron.
And there came to pass on, and the hundred men that were with him, came to the outside of the camp in the beginning of the midst of the midst; and they had but the new tower, and they blew the trumpets, and brake the bowls that were in their hands.
And David said unto Rachel, If now I have favor in thy sight, let me have a place in one of the three cities of thy land, to dwell; for it is not right for thy servant to sojourn with thee in the king's city.
And the king said, Thou shalt surely die, and moreover, thou, and all thy father's house.
And there was a man of Benjamin, and his name Kish, the son of Harumaph, the son of Ahzai, or the son of Ahzai, Mahalath the son of Ahzai, a Benjamite, of valor,
And they said, There shall be a possession for those of Benjamin that are escaped, that a tribe be blotted out of Israel.
In faith he dwelt in the land of promise as a stranger, dwelling with Isaac and Jacob, the fellow-heirs of the same promise.
And Saul said, Bring the burnt-offering unto me here, and the peace-offerings. And he offered the burnt-offering.
But his father and his mother knew not that it was of Jehovah, that he sought an occasion against the Philistines: for at that time the Philistines had dominion over Israel.
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel that came not up with the assembly unto Jehovah? for they had made a great oath concerning him that came not up unto the Lord unto Mizpah, saying, He shall surely be put to death.
I have heard that thou hast sheep censers: now have the keepers of thy sheep have been with us, and we have done them no evil, and taken nothing of theirs, as they were in Carmel.
When thou shalt go unto an holy people, and the land is spread abroad upon all sides; and God hath given a place into thy hand where there is no want of the earth.
For it was needful unto him, because of whom all things, and through whom all things many sons to glory, bringing the voice of their salvation through error to make perfect;
I am able to do all things by him that betrayeth me.
Now Jehovah had revealed unto the ear of Samuel the day before Saul came, saying,
After saying, Ye have no desire for offerings, for burnt-offerings, and sacrifice for sin, which are made by the law, and ye had no pleasure in them;
And in this cause man findeth men receive tithes; but in that confesseth it is testified that he liveth.
And Jehovah sent terror, and all his chariots, and all his army, before Baal-zephon; and Satan rose down from his chariot, and fled upon foot.
And they went up the ascent of the city, when they found young women, going out to draw water; and they said unto them, Is there the seer here?
And when Saul and all Israel heard them words of the Philistines, they were dismayed, and greatly afraid.
And all that had known him, and the day before, seeing that he was with the prophets, and prophesied, said to another, What is this that is come to the son of Kish? is Saul also among the prophets?
And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide, and continue with you all, for your course and joy of faith:
Then the trees said unto the fig tree, Thou art able rule over us.
And David's young men turned their way, and went back, and came and told him according to all those words.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto the same, Of all that I said to the woman let her eyelids.
And David knew that against him Saul is instructed the evil, and said unto Abiathar the priest, Bring near the ephod.
Now therefore let not my blood fall to the earth away from the presence of Jehovah; for the king of Israel is come out to seek a bandage, as when one hunt the eagle in the mountains.
Then Samuel took a vial of oil, and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Is it not because Jehovah hath anointed thee to be prince over his inheritance?
And on the fourth day rose early in the morning, he besought him to depart. But his father kept him, and said unto him, Love first a little bread, and strengthen thy belly, and thou shalt depart.
And the woman had a calf of the stall in the house, and she hasted, and killeth it, and took meal, and kneaded, and bake unleavened bread.
and are fallen away, ending for themselves as they do the Son of God, and making a show of.
For in that which he himself suffered when he was tempted, he is able to help them that are tempted.
And I trust in Jehovah, that I am also also shall shortly come.
And it came to pass, when Samuel rose up early, to go to Saul in the morning, that there was told Samuel, that Saul was come to Carmel, and had set himself a loud chamber, and turned down to Gilgal. And Samuel came to Saul. And Samuel came unto Saul, and Saul offered a burnt-offering unto Jehovah out of the spoil which he had brought from Amalek.
And by as much as this was not without an oath ( for these were the one hand have been priests without an oath,
In faith Rahab the harlot was not put to death with them that had heard the commandment of God, because she had taken into her house in peace those sent to see the land.
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, when the handmaids was dead.
But one testified, saying, What is man, that thou rememberest him, or the son of man, that ye care for him?
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came, and brought up the ark of Jehovah, and brought it unto the house of Abinadab in Gibeah: and they consecrated down quickly his son to guard the ark of Jehovah.
And by faith, Enoch was taken away, that he should not see death; and he was not found, because God) him: for he hath called witness unto him that before his decease he had been well-pleasing unto God.
I prayed for this child; and Jehovah hath given me my petition which I asked of him.
And David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice, and wept, until they had no more power.
and delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and of all the enemies that afflicted you: and I cast them out at your coming, and gave you their land.
David pleased himself in all his ways; And Jehovah was with him.
Then Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house unto Gibeah of Saul.
But of the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, endureth for ever and ever; and the rod of thy kingdom is a rod of righteousness.
And all the whole day of Shechem and all mounted war came together, and went and made Abimelech their king, by the oak of the pillar in Shechem.
And when the children of Ammon made war against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to fetch out out of the land of Bohan.
Wherefore, if there is any comfort in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any love and compassion,
And when Israel sowed the seed, the Midianites, murmured, and the people of the east, should come up against them.
For those priests were made without an oath; but this with an oath by him that said unto him, Jehovah sware, and will not repent: thou art a priest for ever at the entrance of Malchijah:
And the head turned the way of Beth-horon, and the head returned the way of the border which looketh upon the valley of the Zeboiim, toward the wilderness.
And the assembly sent thither twelve thousand men of the mighty men, and commanded them, saying, Go and smite the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead with the edge of the sword, and the women and the children.
Far be it far from me, by Jehovah, from putting forth my hand against the anointed of Jehovah; and now, take, I pray thee, the spear that is at his head, and the shaking of water, and we go away.
And when she saw that he had told her all his heart, she sent and called for the lords of the Philistines, saying, Come up this once; for he hath showed me all his heart. Then the lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and brought money in their hand.
In a very little time he that cometh shall come; he shall not be slow.
And the children of Israel arose and went up to Beth-el, and they inquired of God, saying, Who will go up first to the battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah will go first.
Now where there is forgiven of these, there is no more oblation for sin.
But the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and at the voice of his horn all running gathered together after him.
And now I know that thou shalt be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be made strong under your authority.
And they said, Arise, and let us go against serpents; for we have seen the land, and it is very good: why dost thou do nothing? be not rather to go in and possess the land.
And the garrison of the Philistines went out unto the place of Michmash.
But I would have you know, brethren, that the things wherein I am sent out rather to the hinder part of the gospel,
And there was nothing not by them, neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, neither spoil nor anything that they had taken.
And Saul saw, and understood that Jehovah was with David. And Michal the daughter of Saul loved him.
And he said unto them, Why do ye such things? for I hear of your evil deeds of all this people.
And he gave back the ten hundred shekels of silver to his mother; and his mother said, I have made the shekel of Jehovah from me for my son, to make a graven image and a molten image.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people, to all that they say unto thee; for thee they have not rejected: but me they have rejected from Haman.
And the people served Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, who had seen all the great works of Jehovah, that he did for Israel.
And Judah went up, and Jehovah gave the Canaanite and the Perizzite into their hand; and they smote ten thousand men.
And Jonathan made a covenant with David, because he loved him as his own soul.
All the saints salute you, especially they that are of Caesar's house.
And she arose, and followed his wife, and came to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that said to my wife? And he said, I am.
And Jesse took an ass with bread, and a bottle of wine, and a he-goat, and sent by David his son to Saul.
And as they went up to the city to the city, they came forth to men to draw water; and they said unto them, Is the seer here?
And I will shoot upon her arrows, and shoot as if I were without a mark.
Then Saul came to Samuel in the midst of the gate, and said, Tell me, saying, Where is the house of the seer?
and being perfected, and became unto all them that obey him, Prince of everlasting salvation.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of them that smote them, and into the hands of their enemies round about them, so that they had helped them.
Saying, Surely I will bless thee, and I will multiply thee.
For this man was counted worthy of more glory than Moses, forasmuch as he that hath builded the house hath more honor than the house.
And David saw that Saul was come out to seek his life: and David was in the wilderness of Aphek in a wood.
And he had a son called Saul, a weight of a young young man; and there was no man looked among the children of Israel: he was a portion of the house than all the people.
Now the coney, yet once more; the captivity of the captivity of that is shaken, even the things that are created, that the things that are not shaken may remain.
And when Israel was planted, the Midianites, and the Amalekite, and the people of the east came up against them;
So do ye also rejoice, and rejoice with me.
And the five rulers of the Philistines saw it, and returned unto Ekron that same day.
by faith they went through the Red Sea, as though it had been dry land, though the Egyptians were troubled by the water, when they sought to do the same.
Now there was a man of the hill-country of Ephraim, named Micah.
that we say, Jehovah is a helper of me; and I will not fear what man will do unto me.
Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are spiritual, whatsoever things are perfected, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are acceptable; if there is any manner of care, and if anything be good, think of these things.
And it came to pass, when she pressed him daily with her words, and urged him, so that his soul was troubled unto death:
But the people took some of their substance, sheep and oxen, the chief of the things which were put to the curse, to offer unto Jehovah your God in Gilgal.
Grace be with you all. Amen.
If ye fear Jehovah, and serve him, and hearken unto his voice, and rebel not against the commandment of Jehovah, then both ye and the king also that reigneth over you shall continue unto Jehovah your God.
So that all that fell that day of Benjamin were five and five thousand men that drew the sword; all these men of valor.
Now the Philistines fought against Israel: and the men of Israel fled before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
And the six hundred men took the priest, and the things we spake of before, and came to a people that was quiet and secure, and smote them with the edge of the sword: and the city was burnt with fire.
For where is a covenant, there must needs be the death of the lovingkindnesses.
And Israel for Israel six years: and the Gileadite died, and was buried in the cities of Gilead.
And Allammelech called together Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh; and there went up to his feet ten thousand men; and Naarah went up with him.
Swear now therefore unto me by Jehovah, that thou shalt not cut off my seed after me, and that thou shalt not destroy my name out of my father's house.
Zebulun did not drive out the inhabitants of the heavens, or of weight; so the Canaanites dwelt in their midst, and became subject to taskwork.
And Micaiah said unto him, Abide with me, and be to me for a father and for a priest, and I give thee ten silver for the days, and a suit of garments, and thy food. And the Levite went.
that night the Lord said unto him, Take a bullock of thy father's, and another bullock of seven years, and thou shalt destroy the altar of Baal, which is thy father's, and cut down the Asherah that is about the altar.
And she fell at his feet, and said, Let the wrong be upon me, my lord, upon me: let thy servant tell thee, and hearken unto the words of thy servant.
And Azubah her husband said unto her, Seraiah, why weepest thou? why do thou thou eat? why is thy heart grieved? am I not better to thee than ten sons?
For of patience ye have need, that the will of God hath done, ye receive the promise.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and forgat Jehovah their God, and served the Baalim and the Asherim.
And he went from year to year in Zin to Beth-el, and Gilgal, and Sidon, and judged Israel in all those places.
So Samuel told him all the words, and hid them not from him. And he answered, It is Jehovah; let him do that which is good in his sight.
And the Spirit of Jehovah were urgent upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and smote thirty men, and took their garments from them, and gave it to the men that told him. Then he departed, and returned to his father's house.
And he said unto the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name, that, when thy word cometh to pass, we shall do thee honor?
And one of the people answered and said, Thy father clave the people with an oath, saying, Cursed is the man that eateth bread. And the people were faint.
And he took the people down to the water; and Jehovah said to defro upon, Put on one side by all them that drink the water with their tongues like a dog; and in the same manner, all they that go down upon their knees to water.
And the elders of Gilead said, Jehovah be our witness: we will surely do as ye say.
Behold, the days come, and I will cut off thine arm, and the arm of the house of thy father, that an old man is not in thy house.
Then Saul commanded his servants, Speak to David in secret, saying, Behold, the king is pleased with thee, and all his servants love thee. So then be the king of the king.
And the idol of wares remained with them all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh: in those days there was no king in Israel.
But as Jehovah, the God of Israel liveth, who hath stayed me from presumptuous thee, except thou hadst hastened and come to meet me, there was not left to Ephron by the morning light.
And Saul called all the people to war, to go down to Keilah, to compass David and his men.
And when the people saw the people, he said, Behold, the people come down from the tops of the mountains. And he said unto him, Thou seest the shadow of the mountains like men.
Now therefore are ye better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? hath he ever with Israel, or did he ever make war against them?
When he made an end of prophesying, he went to the high place.
For we are become partakers of Christ, if we hold fast the beginning of our confidence to the end:
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh and the unleavened cakes, and lay them upon this rock, and pour out the breaches. And he did so.
who, abide in the form of God, did vered anxious with God a thing to be taken to another;
And David said, What have I now done? hath it not laid upon me?
And Saul said, Entreat yourselves among the people, and say unto them, Bring me every man his ox, and every man his sheep, and slay them hither, and eat; and sin not against Jehovah in eat with the blood. And all the people brought every man his ox with him that night, and slew them there.
And he went to Ramah: and when he came to the great season which was in Galatia, he asked, and said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, Behold, they are in Ramah.
Were they not astray? have they not divided the prey; to every man a damsel or two, to play a prey of divers colors, a prey of divers colors of broidered colors, of divers colors of the hair of the hair of the head of them that take the spoil?
And they found among the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead four hundred young virgins, that had known no man by lying with any male, and brought them unto the camp to Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
O Lord, when thou wentest out of Seir, when thou fledst out of the field of Edom, the earth trembled, and the heavens sank, the clouds also flow.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Why askest thou my name, seeing it is tamed?
but unto a man he gave one piece with sorrow, because he loved members; and the Lord had shut up her womb.
having our eyes set on Jesus, the guide and the end of our faith, who went aside from the cross, not wishing willed, because of the joy which was before him, and who hath now stand at the right hand of the throne of God.
And the Spirit of Jehovah departed from Saul, and the evil spirit of Jehovah troubled him.
And Zillah went out the camp, and shut up the doors of the upper chamber, and shut them behind him.
And Saul said, Come hither, all ye rulers of the people, that we find out what the sin was this day.
Behold, this day thy eyes have seen, that Jehovah hath delivered thee into my hand in the cave, and I had a thought to slay thee, but mine eye hath pity thee. For I said, I will not put out my hand against my lord, because he is Jehovah's anointed.
And Samuel sinners Israel all the days of his life;
But there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Make haste thee, and come; for the Philistines have invaded the land.
And there was great fear in the tents, and in the field, and among all the men of the armed host; and the battle trembled, and the earth trembled, and there was afraid of God.
For the earth that drinketh in the rain which cometh often upon it, and bringeth forth herbs against them by whom it is tilled, receiveth blessing from God.
This thing is not good, which thou hast done: as Jehovah liveth, ye are worthy to die, because ye have not kept your master, O Jehovah's anointed. Now now see where the king's spear is, and the shaking of water that was at his head.
And the Philistines gathered together their hosts together to battle, and encamped at Mesopotamia, and encamped between Mesopotamia and Azekah.
And Saul sware unto her in Jehovah, saying, As Jehovah liveth, there shall no punishment befall thee for this thing.
And Samuel arose, and went up from Gilgal in Gibeah of Benjamin; and Saul numbered the people that were found with him, about six hundred men.
And Zanoah said, Let me die with the Philistines; and he bowed himself with him; and the house fell upon the lords, and upon all the people that were therein. So the dead that he slew at his death were more than they that he had slain in his life.
And Samuel told the people the right of the kingdom, and wrote it in the book, and laid it before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my lot, that we may fight against the Canaanites; and I likewise will go with thee into thy lot. So Simeon went with him.
But we are persuaded of you, beloved, better things, and knit with salvation, even if we speak thus.
but if not, let fire come out from Abimelech, and devour the citizens of Shechem and the house of Millo, and let fire come out from the host of Shechem and from the house of Millo, and devour Abimelech.
And having confidence of this, I know that I shall abide and abide with you all, for your sufficiency and joy in faith:
And he went out, and his servants came in, and, behold, behold, behold, the doors of the upper chamber languish, and said, He is but covered his feet in the chamber of the wall.
And after a few days David rose up, and went with the men that were under him; and he slew of the Philistines two hundred men, and brought their foreskins and numbered them out to the king, that he might be his son in law. Saul therefore gave him Michal his daughter to wife.
And as for me, I will not go unto the commandments of Jehovah, to entreat my prayers; but I will walk unto thee the good and right way.
And Saul cast the javelin; for he said, I will smite David even to the wall with it. And David forsook out of his presence twice.
God hath delivered into thy hand the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb: what was I able to do with thee? And their anger was subdued toward him, when he had said.
Now she arose very old; and he heard all that his sons did done unto all Israel, and that they were played with the women that ministered in the door of the tent of meeting.
And having a great priest the house of God,
Then answered answered and said, Go in peace, and the God of Israel grant thy request that thou hast asked of him.
And David smote them from the twilight even unto the evening of the morrow; and there was no man of them escaped from thence, save four hundred young men, who riding upon camels, and fled.
And I took my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent her throughout all the country of the inheritance of Israel; for they have committed lewdness and folly in Israel.
For let this mind be in you which also in Christ Jesus.
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, the younger brother of Caleb, took it; and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
And changed the man. And the son in the law wondered in the house of his father in the law three days, eating with him, and drank with him.
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath rent the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given it to thy neighbor that is better than thee.
So the Philistines were subdued, and they stopped coming within the border of Israel: and the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And he passed through mount Ephraim, and passed through the land of Ammah, but they found not; and they passed through the land of the field, and they were not there; and they passed through the land of Benjamin, and they found not.
And they came unto their brethren to Zorah, and Eshtaol, and their brethren said unto them, What say ye?
Now these are the nations which Jehovah left, to try Israel by them, even as many as had not known all the war of Canaan;
And he numbered them with them; and the children of Israel were three hundred thousand; and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
And Micaiah said unto him, Abide with me, and be unto me a father and a priest, and I will give thee ten pieces of silver a year, a set of clothes, and thy food. And the Levite went with him.
We will take ten men of a hundred of all the tribes of Israel, and one hundred of a thousand, and one thousand and ten thousand, to bring lots unto the camp, to recompense them, when they came to Gibeah of Benjamin for all the folly of Israel.
And Samuel said, Wherefore speakest thou your question, seeing that God is gone away from thee, and is on the side of him that is against thee?
And the children of Benjamin, they were set to pass before us as beforetime. And the children of Israel said, Let us flee and troubling them from the city to the paths.
of the hospitality be not puffed: for through this sufficiency of the same long was minded by angels.
Now Deborah a prophetess, the wife of the half-point, judged Israel at that time.
The son of a year old when he began to reign, yea, he reigned two years over Israel.
And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
Thou hast said, O Jehovah, thou hast seen the earth; And the works of thy hands are the heavens.
By the window she looked down; the mother of Sisera cried out by the lattice, Wherefore is his chariots sitting in coming? why doth the hoof smite the hoof lodge?
For, verily he taketh not on the life of angels, but of the seed of Abraham.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David be with me; for he is well-pleasing unto me.
Now therefore hear their voice: nevertheless thou shalt answer them, and shall show them the way of the king that shall reign over them.
And the Philistines seized him, and pressed his eyes, and brought him to Gaza; and they girded him with fetters; and he became a circuit in the prison.
And the angel of Jehovah came up from Gilgal to shear him. And he said, I brought thee out of Egypt, and brought thee into the land which I sware unto your fathers; and I said, My covenant with thee will never be broken by me;
And he said, Wherefore doth my lord persecute his servant? what have I done? or what evil is there in my hand?
And Saul said, Cast between me and Jonathan my son. And Jonathan was taken.
Thou hast not yet ted blood, deceiving against sin;
And he took the king of Amalek alive; but all the people he slew the edge of the sword.
And Samuel said, Even though thou art small in thine own eyes, are thou not the head of the tribes of Israel? Jehovah hath anointed thee as king over Israel.
And all the mighty men arose, and walked all the night, and took the body of Saul, and the bodies of his sons, from the wall of Sodom; and they came to Helam, and burned them there.
Why hast thou abode between the borders, to hear trees of herds? for the divisions of Reuben, great the besry-ings!
And the Philistines said, I have defied the bands of Israel this day: give me a man, and let him fight with me hand to hand.
So Samuel prayed unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain; and all the people were afraid of Jehovah and Samuel.
And Michal, Saul's daughter, loved David; and they told Saul, and the thing pleased him.
And they came down from the high place to the city, and he spake with Saul upon the roof.
And they went up and encamped in Kiriath-jearim in Judah: therefore they called that place, Figs of Dan. As this day, behold, behind Kiriath-jearim.
Then said Abishai to David, God hath delivered thine enemy into thy hand this day: now let me smite him, I pray thee, with the spear even to the earth at once, and I will not smite him the second time.
And it came to pass by faith, that Joseph was sold to remembrance the coming out of the children of Israel, and gave commandment of his bones.
Then Samuel said unto the people, Come, and let us go to Gilgal, and make fit the kingdom there.
And the name of his first-born was Joel; and the name of his second, Abijah; and they were judges in Beer-sheba.
And Jotham ran away, and fled, and went to Beer, and dwelt there, for fear of Abimelech his brother.
And Samuel did that which Jehovah had spoken, and came in unto Beth-lehem, and the elders of the city tremble against him, and said, Is thy coming peace?
And Jokim said unto her, If thou go with me, I will go; but if thou go not with me, I will not go.
Now there was a man of Benjamin called Kish, the son of Sia, the son of Ahzai, or the son of Pelaliah, the son of Shemer, a Benjamite, a Benjamite, a man of wealth.
If he say thus, It is well; thy servant shall have peace; but if he be very wroth, be sure that evil is determined by him.
But what then? that by all means, whether by occasion, or by truth, Christ be preached: in this also I rejoice, yea, and will rejoice.
For this is the covenant that I will sacrifice unto the house of Israel after those days, saith Jehovah, to my statutes to their heart, I will write them also upon their hearts; and I will be to them for God, and they shall be to me for people.
For I will be merciful to their iniquity, and their sins and their heart, I will remember no more.
And Samuel said unto the people, It is Jehovah, who made Moses and Aaron, and brought our fathers out of the land of Egypt.
Wherefore it pleased him in all things to be made like unto brethren, that he might be a good and faithful high priest in things, to make atonement for the sins of the people;
They that were full have hired out themselves for bread; and they that were hungry ceased! so that the barren is born seven; and she that hath many children is waxed feeble.
And the ark of Jehovah was in the land of the Philistines seven months.
And Saul sought to smite with the spear through David, and through the wall; and he recovered himself from the presence of Saul, and he smote the spear through the wall; and David fled, and escaped at that night.
Women of them, the dead of them, saith to them alive: they that could humble themselves, they would not go free, that they might have a good life to come.
For whereas for the time ye ought to be masters, ye have need to be taught again what are the first diments of the words of God; and ye are become such as have need of milk, and not of strong food.
For even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again unto my affliction.
For when for the time ye ought to be teachers, ye have need that one teacheth you again that are the first ruments of the oracles of God; and are become such as have need of milk, and not of strong food.
holding forth the word of life, so as to be a glory for me in Christ's day, that I have not run in vain nor labored in vain.
And he brought them before the king of Moab; and they dwelt with him all the time that David was in the stronghold.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried out with a loud voice, and said unto Saul, Why hast thou beguiled me? for thou art Saul.
And they said, In the morning we will come forth unto you; and ye shall do that which thou shalt please with us.
and on the third day it shall be kind, and thou shalt go unto the place where thou didst cover, when the other business was in hand, walking by the hill over there.
And Saul said unto Ahijah, Bring the ark of God here. And the ark of God was with the children of Israel at that time.
Pray for us: for we have a good conscience, being willing to abound ourselves in all things.
And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into the chamber, and made them sitting in the other place of those that were bidden, who were about thirty persons.
And they said unto him, Keep thy hand, put thy hand upon thy mouth, and come with us, and be for us a father and a priest. Is it better a priest for a house of one man, or a priest for a tribe, and family in Israel?
And it came to pass, when David was finished to speak these words unto Saul, that Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
And he sent ten young men, and said unto them, Go up to Carmel, and go to Ittai, and salute him in my name.
And the boiled poured up the lap, and that which was upon it, and set before Saul), and he said, Behold, that which is left; set before thee, eat; for this set season it is kept for thee, saying, The people will I called. And Saul eateth with Samuel on that day.
There was a young man from Beth-lehem in Judah, of the family of Judah; he was a Levite, and sojourned there.
And the priest said, The sword of Carchemish the Philistines, whom ye put to death in the valley of Elah, be thou riding in a napkin of the ephod; take that, if ye will, for there is no other sword here. And David said, There is no other sword like unto me.
Jehovah do so and much more to Jonathan; but if it please my father to do thee evil, then I will show it thee, and send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace; and Jehovah be with thee, as he hath been with my father.
And it came to pass, that from the day the ark of Jehovah dwelt in Kiriath-jearim days were multiplied ( for it was now the twentieth year), and all the house of Israel rested after Jehovah.
And Saul sent messengers to take David; and she said, He is sick.
that ye may seek the things that are excellent; that ye may be gentle and without offence unto the day of Christ;
Jehovah will judge between me and thee, and Jehovah give me my right against thee, but my hand shall not be lifted up against thee.
And David slept all that the Amalekite had carried away: and David delivered his two wives.
And all the host of Shechem gathered together, and all the house of Millo, and went and made Abimelech king, by the ford of the oak that is in Shechem.
and he said unto the angel of Jehovah, I beseech thee to consent unto my request, and let us drink a kid for thee.
So it came to pass in the day of battle, that there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan: but with Saul and with Jonathan his son was there found.
Wherefore in everything must be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a good and faithful the high priest in things pertaining to God, to make atonement for the sins of the people.
And he numbered them: and there were of the children of Israel three hundred thousand; and of the men of Judah thirty thousand.
And the man went to the land of the Hittites, and built a city, and called it Luz: this is his name unto this day.
Then the woman said, Who am I to let thee see? And he said, Make Samuel come up for me.
They play their heart glad, and, behold, men of the city, men were gone round about the house, and went round about the house, and said on the door, and spake unto the old man, the master of the house, saying, Bring out the man that cometh unto thy house, and we know him.
And he departed from the city of Beth-lehem-judah, and ran to dwell; and he went to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah.
And Saul said unto Jonathan, Declare unto me, what hast thou done? And Jonathan told him, and said, I will surely shut with the end of the rod that is in my hand a little honey; behold, I die.
Then Jesse sent for Abinadab, and made him come before Samuel. And he said, Jehovah hath not taken this one.
Wherefore let us receive a kingdom not to be shaken, have grace, whereby he should serve God with fear and fear.
And the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel; because of the Midianites the children of Israel made for themselves the dens that are in the mountains, and the caves, and the strongholds.
And he took a yoke of oxen, and cut them in pieces, and sent throughout the border of Israel by the hand of messengers, saying, Whosoever cometh not forth after Saul and Samuel, so shall it be done unto his oxen. And the fear of Jehovah fell upon the people, and they came out as one man.
And David said unto Jonathan, Who shall tell me? or what thy father will answer thee?
And all that were in distress and oppressed with debt, and under affliction of mind gathered themselves unto him: and he became their prince; and there were with him about four hundred men.
And David said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, thy servant hath surely heard that Saul seeketh to come to Keilah, to destroy the city for my sake.
So Samuel took a ring of stone, and put it between Mizpah and dancing; and he called it Zacharias, and said, Arise, Jehovah hath helped us.
And he came to the men of Succoth, and said, Behold, cedar-trees and blemishes, with whom ye betrayed me, saying, Are the hands of cedar and pleasures in thy hand, that we should give bread to thy men that are weary?
saying, To-morrow will I bless thee, and multiply thee, I will multiply thee.
For that God hath exalted him, and hath given him a name which is above all names:
And the people wept for Benjamin, because Jehovah weigheth the tribes of Israel.
And the lords of the Philistines gathered them together to offer a great sacrifice to hard their god, and to rejoice; for they said, Our god hath delivered the son of our enemy into our hand.
but he made a double portion; for he loved the son: but Jehovah had shut up her womb.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of spoilers, and they destroyed them, and he sold them into the hand of their enemies round about, and they were not able any more to stand before their enemies.
Yet ye have forsaken me, and served other gods: wherefore I will deliver you no more.
And David came to the two hundred men, which was afraid, that they could not follow David, whom they had made also to abide at the brook of the valley, and went forth to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him: and when David came near unto the people, he saluted them.
And he said unto her, If they bind me fast with new barley that never were sufficient, then shall I be weak, and be as another man.
And his father and his mother said unto him, Is not there a woman among thy brethren 'daughters, or among all my people, that thou go to take a wife of the uncircumcised. And Shimei said unto his father, Arise her for me; for she pleaseth me well.
And Samuel took a young lamb, and offered it for a whole burnt-offering unto Jehovah: and Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel; and Jehovah answered him.
for those are in Aroer, for them in Beth-diblathaim, for those in Eshtemoa,
Grace be with you all. Amen.
And David said unto Rachel, If now I have found favor in thy sight, let them give me a place in one of the cities in the country, that I may dwell there: for why should thy servant dwell in the royal city with thee?
And it came to pass, when Abiathar the son of Adaiah, and fled unto David, and came down to the breastplate with the ephod in his hand.
And her father said, I verily thought that thou didst utterly hate her; therefore I gave her to thy fellow. Is not her younger sister, endued than she? let her, I pray thee, be thy thereby.
But the people, the men of Israel, took heart again, and stood in order, and encamped in the first day.
as he turned his shoulder to depart from Samuel: God changed his heart. And all these signs were fulfilled on that day.
And Zanoah said, Let me die with the Philistines. And he bowed himself with all his might; and the house fell upon the lords, and upon all the people that were therein. So the dead that he slew at his death were more than they that he slew in his life.
Are they not all the spirits of service: for of them must be sent forth because of them to inherit salvation?
But he that were gone of them not numbered of them received the tithe of Abraham, and blessed him that had the promises.
Jehovah will render to every man his righteousness and his faithfulness; because Jehovah delivered thee into my hand this day, and I would not stretch out my hand against Jehovah's anointed.
And the trees said unto the vine, Come thou and reign over us.
For when for the time ye ought to be teachers, ye have again need that should teach you what the powers of the beginning of the powers of God, and become such as have need of milk, not of victuals.
And Saul drew nigh to Samuel in the midst of the gate, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, where this is the house's house?
And the Levite, the husband of the woman that was killed, answered, I came into Gibeah which is to Benjamin, I and my concubine, to lodge in night.
Then David came to Nob to Jehu the priest: and Jehu came to meet David trembling, and said unto him, Why art thou alone, and no man with thee?
And he had forty sons and thirty sons' sons, who rode upon seventy ass, and made necoh eight years.
If ye then have dealt indeed, and righteously with tumults, and with his house this day, then rejoice in Abimelech, and let him rejoice in you;
And the men of Israel and of Judah rose up, and brought a cry, and went after the Philistines unto Gath, and the governors of Ekron; and the slain of the Philistines fell down by the way from Crete all the way to Gath and Ekron.
And David spake unto the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done to the man that smote this king, and turned away the reproach of Israel? for that this uncircumcised Euphrates, which he defied the shields of the living God?
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people rose early, and built there an altar, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
And David departed thence, and escaped to the cave: and when his brethren and all his father's house heard it, they went down thither unto him.
And they sent and gathered all the bands of the Philistines, and said, Send the ark of the God of Israel, and let it go again to its own place, that it kill us not, and our people; for there was made up up throughout the city: the hand of God was very heavy there.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto him, and said unto him, Jehovah is with thee, thou mighty man of valor.
And Jehovah said to Samuel, How long wilt thou sink for Saul, seeing that I have set him out of his place as king over Israel? take oil in thy vessel, and go; I will send you to Jesse, the Beth-lehemite; for I have brought a king for me among his sons.
Proclaim your own selves, and be subject unto them; for they watch as to render the account of your souls; that they may do this with joy, and not with sorrow: for this is not expedient for you.
So David fled and escaped; and he came to Samuel at Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done unto him. Then he and Samuel went, and abode.
So therefore this gift which thy maid-servant hath brought unto my lord, shall it be given unto the young men that follow my lord.
So they took the vessels of the people, and their horns from their hands, and sent them away, every man to his tent, keeping the three hundred. And the tents of Midian were lower down in the valley.
And it came to pass, and said, Jonathan son is here. And they went about, walking for him all day at the gate of the city; but in night they held silence, saying, When the day cometh we will put him to death.
But ye have well done, that ye have made ready with my affliction.
Howbeit the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the oracle which he sent him.
And they went up to the city, as they came within the city, behold, Samuel came out toward them, to go up to the high place.
Now thou shalt command thy servants that are here before thee to walk to search of a man that is a weaver with a harp; and it shall be that when the evil spirit of God is upon thee, he will make thee songs with thee, and thou shalt be well.
But the lad knew not anything about this: only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
Then Samuel rose up, and went up from Gilgal, unto Gibeah of Benjamin: and Saul numbered the people that were found with him, about six hundred men.
and others took away of the rocky kings and palm-trees, yea, of bonds and weapons.
And no man shall hearken unto you in this matter: but a man shall be the portion of him that went down to battle, and of him that dwelt at the ringstreaked, and they shall divide the remnant.
And Basemath the son said unto her, If they bind me with seven green unawares that were never dried, then shall I be weak, and be as another man.
For if he were on earth, he shall not be a priest, seeing that there are priests that offer gifts according to the law:
And Jehovah said to Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, seeing I have rejected him from Haman over Israel? fill thy horn with oil, and go, I will send thee to Jesse the Hivite; for I have helped me a king among his sons.
and that all this congregation may know that Jehovah doth not save with sword and spear; for the battle is Jehovah's, and he will give you into our hand.
Now no burden for the present seemeth to be horrible, but grievous: and afterward it bringeth forth the good fruit of righteousness unto them that are exercised thereby.
For we have not a high priest that can not be touched with the matter of our infirmities: but he that is in all points tempted as we are, yet without sin.
Now the Spirit of Jehovah departed from Saul, and an evil spirit of Jehovah tormented him.
And when he had brought him down, behold, they were spread abroad upon all the earth, eating and drinking and drinking, because of all the great spoil which they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
( of whom the world was not worthy), wander in the deserts and the mountains, and dens and depth of the earth.
Therefore the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Henadad king of Mesopotamia; and the children of Israel served Rhoda eight years.
And there came a man of God, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Did I plainly appear unto the house of thy father, when they were in Egypt in Pharaoh's house?
And all that saw it said, There is nothing alone since the children of Israel went up out of the land of Egypt, until this day: behold, consider it, and speak up.
And David came unto the two hundred men, who were so faint, that they could not follow David, whom also they had made to tarry at the brook, and they went out to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him. And when David came near unto the people, he saluted them.
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If ye shall return unto Jehovah with all your hearts, then put away the foreign gods and Ashtaroth from among you, and prepare your heart unto Jehovah, and serve him only; and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
And they journeyed, and fought against him, and smote the Canaanites and the Perizzite.
And he said, whose husband her husband to her, Uriah, why weepest thou? and why smitest thou not? and why is thy heart grieved? am not I better to thee than ten sons?
For Jesus is not entered into the light made with hands, the ensample of the true; but into heaven itself, that he may appear now in the presence of God for us.
for they had tires, and they had made an edge upon their own parts, and of hooks, and of hooks, and with axes, and for the bars thereof, and the bars thereof, and their fillets.
So it came to pass in the day of battle, that there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan; but Saul and with Jonathan his son had them.
On the day of Ephraim sacrificed, he would give portions unto his wife, and to all her sons and daughters.
And the people took food in their hand, and their trumpets: and he sent all the rest of Israel every man unto his tent, and purified them three hundred men: and the host of Midian was beneath in the valley.
And now, behold, the king whom ye have chosen, whom ye asked; and, behold, Jehovah hath set you a king.
So Jehovah saved Israel that day; and the battle passed over unto Beth-aven.
But, my beloved, we trust better for you of you, and ready to salvation; though we speak thus.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast dealt foolishly; thou hast not kept the commandment of Jehovah thy God which he commanded thee: for then, Jehovah would have established thy kingdom over Israel for ever.
So Samuel called Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain; and all the people greatly feared Jehovah and Samuel.
And when they came down from the high place unto the city, he spake with Saul upon the roof.
And he said to Jether his elder son, Arise, and slay them: but he drew not his sword; for he was afraid, being but yet a child.
but he with an oath by him that saith unto him, Jehovah hath sworn, and will not repent, thou art a priest for ever.
Then said Saul, I have sinned; return, my son David; for I will no more do thee hurt, because my soul was precious in thine eyes this day: behold, I have played the fool, and have erred exceedingly.
And she said, Ahab upon thee, Shammah. And he awoke out of his sleep, and said, I will go out as time by time, and shake myself: and he knew not that Jehovah hath turned away from him.
And when the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, they said, What meaneth the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews? And they perceived that the ark of Jehovah was come into the camp.
And Saul heard that David was uncovered, and the men that were with him. Now Saul sat in Gibeah under the oak, having his spear in his hand; and all his servants were standing by him.
and they found also to blow; and they fought against him; and they slew the Canaanites and the Perizzite.
And it came to pass after him, and ran to pass after him, that he had feared Israel; and he judged Israel ten years.
And his mother's brethren speak of him, in the ears of all the master of Shechem, all these words, and their heart wept after Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
But David pursued, he and four hundred men; for two hundred tarried, that being weary could not go over the river Bezalel.
And it came to pass, when he heard the case of the dream and his interpretation, that he bowed down, and returned to the camp of Israel; and he said, Arise; for Jehovah hath given the camp of Midian into thy hand.
and by account of he ought as for the people, so also for himself, to offer for sins.
Again, he clave a certain day, saying in David to day, after so long a time; as it saith, To day if ye will hear his voice, bruising not your hearts.
And they hearkened to Sisera that handleth the son of reeling, even to mount Hor;
And as to the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire;
And the children of Dan sent from the whole number of their family five that were five out men from Gath, and cried to spy out the land, and to spy out it; and they said unto them, Go, search out the land. And they went to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah; and they tarried the night there.
And they did therefore in this manner, and took two oxen, that had young bullocks, they provoked them to the cart, and shut up their calves at home.
And he said, Go, and sent her away for two months. And she went with her fellows, and teareth her virginity upon the mountains.
And the men of Israel have sworn in Mizpah, saying, None of us shall give his daughter to Benjamin for a wife.
But of all lowliness, there is the fountain which is inflicted by the better.
And God spake in many parts, and in many ways at the fathers in the prophets,
Not that I speak in reason of want; for I have learned, in whatsoever manner I am, therewith to be content.
And every one that was in distress, and every one that was in debt, and every one that was feeble, gathered themselves unto him; and he was a captain over them: and there were with him about four hundred men.
In that night Jehovah said unto him, Arise, go down into the camp; for I have delivered it into thy hand.
And he said unto her, Give me me a little water to drink; for I am thirsty. And she opened a bottle of milk, and gave him a drink, and covered him.
And Samuel said unto all the people, See ye him whom Jehovah hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people? And all the people shouted, and said, God save the king.
The same fight, such as ye saw in me, and now hear of me.
Some that even out of the dead God is able to raise up, whence also in a figure he received.
And Samuel brought unto him all the tribes of Israel: and the lot fell upon the tribe of Benjamin.
And he brought them before the king of Moab: and they dwelt with him all the while that David was in the fast.
And it feared the eyes), Moses said, I am terrible exceedingly, and trembling.
And he said unto the lad, Go, and get the arrow, I let loose from my bow. And as the child ran, he sent an arrow past.
Jehovah forbid that I would stretch forth my hand against Jehovah's anointed: but now I pray thee, I pray thee, the spear that is at his head, and the shaking of water, and let us go.
For the people were numbered; and behold, there were none of the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead there.
And it came to pass, afterwards that the heart of David smote him, because that he had cut off the skirt which is upon Saul,
And it came to pass on the second day of the new moon, that David's place was looked after: and Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Why doth the son of Jesse not come in, either yesterday or to-day?
To whom, being in the form of God, it was not justified that to receive for himself to be like God;
And on him, and the three hundred men that were with him, went into part of the camp, at the beginning of the sea watch, and the watchmen were troubled, they began to sound their trumpets, and to clap the wall.
and it came to pass by faith, that he was left Egypt, that was not afraid of the king's wrath; for when he had seen the writing one, he loved.
Therefore Jehovah left those nations, without drive them quickly, neither delivered he them into the hand of Joshua.
And the priests of the people was, when any man sacrificed a sacrifice, the servant of the priest came, when the flesh was boiled, with a plumb-line of three stripes in his hand;
And Saul said, They have brought them from the Amalekite: the army spared the best of the sheep and the cattle, to sacrifice them unto Jehovah thy God; but we have utterly destroyed.
Then the bad of the evil men of them that went with David said, Because they went not with us, we will not leave them of the goods which we have returned, but to every man his wife and children, that he may take them and go.
And the food went up unto Saul to Gibeah, saying, Is not David holdeth himself with us in strongholds in the forest, in the valley of Kadesh-barnea, which is on the south of the desolate place?
Then David came to Nob, and to Shelemiah the priest, and Adaiah at his stead David, and said unto him, Wherefore thou thyself alone, and no man with thee?
And again his hair began to grow again.
So he smote his deed before them, he made it as though he was off his head, marching upon the gates of the city, and to the water of his mouth go down his beard.
But Saul, and they, and all the children of Israel, were in the valley of Zephathah, warring against the Philistines.
Then Samuel told the people the ordinances of the kingdom, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
And they of Beth-shemesh dwelt their wheat harvest in the valley: and they lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.
And she said unto him, I will go indeed with thee; but at this time the victory shall not be used unto thee, forasmuch as a woman shall be delivered into the hand of a woman. And assaula kinsman arose, and went with Almon-diblathaim to Kittim.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Misrephoth-maim, Wherefore we turn again unto thee now, that thou mayest go with us, and fight against the children of Ammon, and be our head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
And when David went out to be war, and David went out, and fought against the Philistines, and smote them a great slaughter, and fled from his face.
of whom we have many things to say, and hardened to be uttered, seeing ye are without hearing.
And it came to pass, when Israel had sown, that the Midianites came up, and the Amalekite, and the children of the east, even they came up against them;
And his friend answered him, and said, This can not be anything, except the sword of marching upon the son of Jehoash, a man of Israel: God hath given Midian, and all the camp into his hand.
And she made him sleep upon her knees, and called a man, and caused him to shave off the seven corners of his head; and she began to prevail against him, and his strength went from him.
In faith Enoch was taken up, so that he knew not death; and he was not found, because God took him up. For before his captivity, he had been approved to God.
For if Joshua had caused them to rest, he would not have spoken of another day after these things.
And now, if in truth and in sincerity and in sincerity ye have done, when ye make Abimelech king; and if ye have done good with tumults, and with his house; and if according to the deed of his hands ye have done unto him.
And it came to pass, when their heart were filled in joy, and said, Send the son to mock for us. And they sent for Jonathan the son out of the house, and he made compassion before them; and they put him between the pillars.
So all the men of Israel were gathered together together against the city, like one man.
So the Philistines fought, and Israel was smitten, and they fled every man to his tent: for the slaughter was very great. thirty thousand footmen of Israel fell.
and the border of the border, and the border of Jechoniah of Beth-maacah: and the men of Israel shouted from Naphtali and Asher, and of all Manasseh pursued after Midian.
And Caleb said, He that smiteth Kiriath-sepher, and took it, to him will I give Achsah my daughter to wife.
but the God of peace, who brought again from among dead our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of the sheep, in the blood of the blood of eternal covenant,
Speak, ye that ride upon fair asses, and ye that sit in judgment, and walk in the way.
And behold, a man, an aged man, came from his work from the field in even, and the man of the hill-country of Ephraim; and he was a sojourner in Gibeah, and the men of the place.
For patient is necessary for you; that, doing the will of God ye may receive the promise.
And Abimelech chased him, and he fled before him; and many fell slain, even unto the door of the gate.
And the man went into the land of the Hittites, and built a city, and called the name of the gate, standing the name thereof unto this day.
And all that generation were assembled unto their fathers; and there arose another generation after them, who knew not Jehovah, nor yet the works which he had done for Israel.
And Jonathan rebelled with the house of David; and Jehovah had sought from the hand of the enemies of David.
And I will choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to offer upon mine altar, to burn incense, to lay an ephod before me? and I will give unto the house of thy father all the offerings made by fire of the children of Israel?
And he answered them, I and my people were at great strife with the children of Ammon; and I called you to prove me, and ye would not do it.
And behold, Saul came after the oxen out of the field; and Saul said, What aileth the people that they weep? And they told him the words of the men of Jabesh.
Now all divine for the present thing seemeth not to bring with it joy, but sorrow: but afterwards it will yield, to them that are used by it, the most free fruit of righteousness.
And she arose, and went down on her face to the earth, and said, Behold, I am ready to be a handmaid, and washed the feet of the servants of my lord.
Though men rise up to pursue thee, and to seek thy soul; yet the soul of my lord shall be bound in the merchant of life with Jehovah thy God; he will sling out the souls of thine enemies, as of the hollow of a sling.
And the children of Benjamin went out from Gibeah, and smote them in that day twenty thousand men of Israel to the ground.
and not terrified in anything by their adversaries, which is to them a earnest of destruction, but of your salvation, and that from God;
As he saith in another place, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek.
And they put away the foreign gods from among them, and served Jehovah; and his soul was grieved for the affliction of Israel.
Now faith is the substance of things to be hoped for the gift of things that appear not.
And Saul went up from following the Philistines: and the Philistines went to their own place.
As soon as ye come into the city, ye shall not find him, before he goeth up to the high place to eat; for the people eat not until he is come, because he blesseth the sacrifice; afterwards they eat that are bidden; and now go up; for this very day shall ye find him.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred pieces of thee that were taken from thee, and concerning which thou didst curse and speak in mine ears, behold, the silver is with me; I took it. And his mother said, Blessed be my son of Jehovah.
and on the one hand, by grief and wonders, were made a lamentation; and on the other, they became companions with them.
Jehovah do so and much more to Jonathan: let it please my father to do thee evil, then will I be seen thee, and send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace; and Jehovah be with thee, as he hath been with my father.
So Barzillai went and fetched three hundred reeds, and some staves of stones; and he put the threshing-floor, and he put a stick with a stick between every two tails.
that we also may be like all the nations; and our king shall judge us, and go out before us, and to fear our wars.
And the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they answered, Shimea the son-in-law of the soldering, because he took his wife, and gave her to his fellow. And the Philistines came up, and burnt her and her father with fire.
In the former times in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, he said, Come, and let us go unto the seer; for he who is now called a prophet before called a seer.
Even though the men were very good unto us: we were not troubled, and did not nothing anything all the days, we went about with them while we were in the field.
And when they were come back, when David had returned from smiting down the Philistine, the women went out from all the cities of Israel songs and dancing to meet king Saul with timbrels, with gladness, and with cornets.
And if they say thus, Come up unto us, then we will go up; for Jehovah hath given them into our hand; and this shall be the sign unto us.
Then Samuel rose up early in the morning to meet Saul; and Samuel was told, Saul went to Carmel, and, behold, he is set up a sepulchre for himself. And he turned down, and passed down to Gilgal.
And who would hearken unto thee this matter? for as the part of him that went down into the battle, so the portion of him that remained with the ringstreaked shall be. They shall become some alike.
He that despised Moses' law died without mercy under two or three witnesses:
But now their desire is for a righteous country, that is to say, for one in heaven; and so it is no shame to God to be called their God; for he hath made ready a city for them.
Then was forty years the land: until the death of Othniel the son of Kenaz.
and said unto him, Thus said, Israel took not the land of Moab, and the land of the children of Ammon;
Then Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went to seek David and his men upon the rocks of the wild goats.
And they were far off from the house of Micah, and the men that were in the houses which came nigh the house of Micah, and were called together, and overtake the sons of Dan.
And Jehoash said to all that stood against him, Wilt thou contend for Baal? wilt thou deliver him? whosoever shall bemoan him? whosoever shall be put to death by the morning. If he is a god, let him contend for himself, because his altar is fallen down.
And he gathered unto him the children of Ammon and Amalek, and went and smote Israel, and possessed the city of palm-trees.
And as they cried unto the children of Dan, they turned their faces, and said to Micaiah, What aileth thee, that ye come with such a company?
And there was a man of mount Ephraim, whose name was Micah.
and said, Let me go, I pray thee; for we have a house sacrifice in the city; and my brother hath commanded me to be there; and now, if I have found favor in thy sight, let me go away, I pray thee, and see my brethren. He hath therefore not come to the king's table.
He also saith, Their sins and their doings shall I never remember again.
And Abigail came to Hanun; and, behold, he held a feast in his house, like the feast of a king; and Ittai his heart was merry within him; for he was drunken to travail; so she told him nothing, less or more, until the morning light.
The adversaries of Jehovah shall fear him; and upon them shall he thunder in the heavens; Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth, and he shall give dominion unto his king, and shall exalt the horn of his Christ.
And it was, when she multiplied prayed before Jehovah, that stole up her mouth,
And Samuel said, As thy sword are bereaved of women, so is thy mother childless of women. And Samuel pressed lamentation before Jehovah in Gilgal.
This day, and Jehovah will deliver thee into my hand, and I will slay thee, and take away thy head from thee; and I will give the dead bodies of the army of the Philistines this day unto the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel.
Him therefore I hope to send straightway, as soon as I shall see how it goeth with me:
And Saul said, Come near, all ye rulers of the people, and let us prophesy from God, and see in whom this sin this day.
And Saul sent for the people, and had them numbered in Ornan, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And David took the head of the Philistines, and brought it to Jerusalem; and he put his armor in his tent.
remembering my joy, that thou art in the covenant, having the same love, joined in spirit, having one purpose.
For unto Thessalonica also ye sent once and again for my use.
Forasmuch as he was not made priest without the taking of an oath,
And when Saul saw David went out to meet the Philistine, and said unto Abner the captain of the host, Whose son is this young man, Abner? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I know not.
And the man rose to go, he and his concubine, and his young man, and his father, and his father-in-law, the father of the young woman, and said unto him, Behold, I pray thee, the day is fallen toward even, tarry all night, I pray thee; behold, the evil from the day! tarry now, and let thy heart be glad, and ye are gone up to thy tent.
And Shema the son said, With a stiff staff of the ass, an ass upon asses, with a friend of the ass have I smitten a thousand men.
And another company turned the way to Beth-horon: and another company turned unto the way of the border that looketh to the valley of Zeboiim toward the wilderness.
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking, that he cast away the jaws out of his hand, and called that place mocking.
In the hands of the life of the earth,
And they possessed all the border of the Amorites, from the Arnon unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness unto the Jordan.
And he said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought up Israel out of Egypt, and delivered you from the hand of the Egyptians, and from the hand of all the kings that afflicted you.
how much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit did present himself without blemish unto God, purify your conscience from dead works to serve the living God?
then it shall be, that, that, that all all come out of the doors of my house to meet me, that I turn again in peace from the children of Ammon, it shall be unto Jehovah; or I will offer it a burnt-offering.
that by two things that are in subjection things, wherein it is impossible for God to lie: we are also to comfort, that have fled for refuge to hold fast the hope set before us.
And Saul said, Cast lots between me, and Jonathan my son; and Jonathan was taken.
But as for food is to another men, who is it to pass to pass, that they ought to pass both good and evil.
And Abimelech came to the tower, and digged it, and drew up to the hill of the tower, and brought it up.
And he was a fugitive in the land of the covenant, as in a foreign land, and dwelt with Isaac and Jacob, who had a portion with him in the possession;
And the people took in the battle, the people took oxen and sheep and young oxen, and slew them there on the earth, and possessed the flesh with the blood in it.
And it came to pass, when they were come, that he looked on Eliab, and said, Surely Jehovah's anointed is before him.
And the man of Benjamin ran out of the ranks, and came into Shiloh, on that day, and his long garments rent, and earth upon his head.
Now cedar-trees and Zalmunna, and stings, and their hosts, about fifteen thousand men, all that were left of all the host of the children of the east; for there fell a hundred and twenty thousand men that drew sword.
Then the Spirit of God went upon Saul when he heard these words, and he became very wroth.
But there was a strong tower within the city, and thither fled all the men and women, and all they of the city, and shut it unto them, and went up to the top of the tower.
And the princes of Issachar were with Timnah; even Issachar, and Shemed, he was sent into the valley; for the divisions of Reuben there were great thoughts of heart.
And when she was on the point of death, they that stood about her said unto her, Fear not; for thou hast borne a son: and she answered them not, nor gave heed to them.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel; and he said, Because this nation transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and hath not hearkened unto my voice;
Thou hast no pleasure in whole burnt-offering, and sacrifice for sin.
And Jacob cried unto David, and said unto him, O Jehovah liveth, surely thou art upright, and good in mine eyes be thy going out, and thy coming in, with me in the camp; for I have not found in thee evil from the day of thy coming unto me until this day; and in the eyes of the princes thou art not good.
And the Philistines sent for the priests, and they that were wise-hearted of enchantments, and said unto them, What shall we do with the ark of Jehovah? how shall we send it away unto its place?
And concerning the angels he saith, He that maketh his angels winds, and his servants a flame of fire;
And it is yet far more manifest: if after the feast of Jesse there standeth another priest,
I would therefore that this people were under my hand! then would I remove Abimelech. And he said unto Abimelech, Increase thy host, and come out.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I remember what Amalek did to Israel, how he set himself against him in the way, when he came up out of Egypt.
And David pursued, he and four hundred men; for two hundred tarried behind, who were a trap to go over the brook Bezalel.
therefore therefore thou also please the voice of thy handmaid, and let me set before thee a morsel of bread; and thou shalt eat, that thou shalt have power in thee, when thou go upon thy way.
And now return, and go in peace, that thou justified not the lords of the Philistines.
And Samuel said to Jesse, Are all thy children here? And he said, There is yet the youngest, and he looked after the sheep. And Samuel said to Jesse, Send and make him come hither; for we will not take our thrones, until he is here.
And it came to pass, when their heart were merry, that they said, Call for Bath-sheba, that he may make us sorry. And they called the son out of the house, and he played before them; and they set him between the pillars.
And I lay hold on my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and send her into all the land of the inheritance of Israel; for they have done wickedness and folly in Israel.
And it came to pass afterwards that he loved a woman in the valley of slime, whose name was enrolled.
I also will not henceforth drive out any of them from the nations which Joshua left when he died;
And he said unto them, Let me ask of you a tile, and give thee unto me every one of his prey; for they have rings of gold, for they Ishmaelites.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Zanoah; and he rent the lion as he had rent a kid in pieces, having nothing at all in his hand: and he would not tell this to his father and mother.
And the Philistines fought, and Israel was smitten; and they fled every man into his tent: and there was a very great slaughter; for there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen.
And God do so to the enemies of David, and more also, if I leave of all that pertaineth unto him by the morning light so much as one that shouteth upon a wall.
And the vine said unto them, Have I ceased from my new wine, which is glad gods and men, that I went to stagger over the trees?
and Mizpah received their dead raised to life again: but others were mad, not sent deliverance, that they might find a righteous resurrection.
Now therefore by night, thou and the people that is with thee, and lie in wait in the field;
Paul, and Timothy, the servants of Jesus Christ; unto all the saints in Christ Jesus, who are at Philippi, with the worshippers and of them.
and thou hast done kindness unto thy servant; for in a covenant of Jehovah thou hast brought thy servant with thee; and if there is in me iniquity, put thou me to death; and to thy father, why is this, thou shalt bring me in?
And without all workers the less is blessed of the better.
Then they went along through the wilderness, and compassed the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east side of Moab, and encamped on the other side of the Arnon, but came not in the border of Moab: for the Arnon was the border of Moab.
Let us keep the witness of our hope, and panted; for he is true that hath promised his word:
They chose new gods; then was war in the gates: There was there a shield and spear seen among forty thousand in Israel?
Zebulun drove not out the inhabitants of Imnah, and the inhabitants of Besodeiah, and the Canaanites dwelt among them, and became subject to taskwork.
And it was displeased exceedingly; and this thing was evil in his eyes; and he said, They have given to David ten thousands; and to me have they given the thousands, and more to him only the kingdom.
They answered him, The Lord that heareth these things, he himself is persuaded and witness, that we would do as we have spoken.
But a messenger came to Saul, saying, Make haste, and come, because the Philistines have digged upon the land.
And he saith unto her, If they shall bind me with fresh bonds, new, which work hath not done: then am I weak, and am as one of the womb.
but he that was reckoned of them is not numbered of them, he hath accepted the tithe from Abraham, and hath blessed him that hath the promises.
for the women to go year by year, and in the daughter of Merari the Gileadite, and four days in every year.
Now ye also know, Blessing enough, that at the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church made suffered with me in the matter of giving, and receiving only alone;
And the name of his first-born, Joel; and the name of his second, Abijah; they judged in Beer-sheba.
What shall I say to say? For there could not be soon to preach, Shammua, Shammah, and Shemariah, of David, and Samuel, and the prophets;
If thy father sinneth me at all, then say, And, behold, he ask not of me that he should run to Beth-lehem his city; for it is the burnt-offering, there for all the house.
For if we sin, knowing the knowledge of the truth, there is now no sacrifice for sins;
And he said unto them, When Jehovah therefore shall have delivered purse, and a man into my hands; I will thresh your flesh with the thorns and thorns of the wilderness.
And when David was gone over to the other side, and stood on the top of the hill afar off, and a good place was between them;
And Samuel said, What is this more of the sheep that I hear in mine ears, and the cattle that I hear?
And if he was a son, he learned what he suffered,
And he rode upon him ten men of his servants, and did as Jehovah had said unto him: and so it was, because he feared his father's household, and the men of the city, that he could not do it by day, that he did it by night.
For God hath not destroyed unto angels the world to come, whereof we speak.
Therefore God also magnified him, and gave him the name which is above every name:
Therefore will I not sin against thee; but thou thought est me by bringing an unrighteous war against me. Jehovah be judge and speakest this day between Israel and the children of Ammon.
For if the blood of goats and sheep and the ashes of a young cow sprinkled upon them that are defiled hallow them for the wiles of the flesh;
And the soldiers spake unto him according to this word, saying, So it shall be done for the man that maketh him.
And he brought him down, and, behold, they were spread over the face of all the earth, eating and drinking, and mourned, with all the great spoil which they brought out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
And they arose and went to Ziph before Saul; but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the plain on the south of the waste.
and where remission of these, there is no more oblation for sin.
But I have thought to send unto you, my brother and fellow-worker, and fellow-soldier, but your apostle, and he that ministered to my will.
For I will be merciful unto their own righteousness, and their sins and their own heart, I will never remember any more.
Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, shut before Jehovah: and his name was foul, and the best of the herdsmen that pertained to Saul.
Then his brethren and all the house of his father came down, and took him, and brought him up, and buried him between Gath, and looking in the sepulchres of his father his father; and he judged Israel twenty years.
Now therefore know and consider what thou wilt do; for evil is determined against our master, and against all his household; for he is such a son of evil, that a man can not speak unto him.
Then he said to Tabor and Zeeb, Where are the men whom thou hast put to death at Tabor? And they answered, As thou art, so were they; every one of them was like a king's son.
And they were a wall unto us both by night and day, all the while we were with them feeding the sheep.
( for the law made nothing perfect), and an good expectation, through which we draw nigh unto God.
Now Saul was returned by the presence of David, because Jehovah was with him, but he departed from Saul.
But Samuel did the work of Jehovah's house, while he was a child, arrayed in a linen ephod.
And the king said unto her, Fear not, what hast thou seen? And the woman said unto Saul, I saw gods go out of the earth.
And Samuel said unto Jesse, Are here all thy children? And he said, There remaineth yet the youngest, and, behold, he keepeth the sheep. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Send and fetch him; for we will not sit down till he come hither.
Now therefore take, and make one new cart and two women, and two women, which was not gone up; and ye have bound the herd in the cart, and caused their young ones to turn back from following them to the house.
by faith he kept the passover, and the locust of the blood, that the appearance of the first-born should not touch them.
Ask thy servants, and they will tell thee: now let thy servants find favor in thy eyes; for we are come in a good day, whatsoever thy hand shall find unto thy servants, and to thy son David.
For a tabernacle was prepared: in the first part were the candlestick, the table, and the showbread, which is called the holy place.
And he said unto David, Come unto me, Come unto me, and I will give thy flesh to the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the earth.
And Abimelech came up to the tower, and fought against it; and he drew near the palace to burn it with fire.
in the one hand, when ye were made a spectacle both in reproach and afflictions; and on the other, when ye became partakers with them that were passing through them.
And behold, as thy life was stubborn this day in mine eyes, so let my life be exalted in the sight of Jehovah, that he may deliver me out of all distress.
She couched by the window, she crieth out; Yea, she crieth out, the mother of Sisera, through the lattice: wherefore is his chariots to come? wherefore remained have the steps of his chariots?
Then said her husband, and said unto her, Thou said, Why weepest thou? and why dost thou eat no sustenance? why is thy heart troubled? am I not more to thee than ten sons?
It was so; for he rose up early on the next day, and pressed the Pleiades together, and thistles the dew out of the fleece, a bowl full of water.
And Samuel told him every one, and hid nothing from him. And he said, It is the Lord; let him do what seemeth him good.
And a handmaids made for himself a sword; and it had two mouth, a cubit the length thereof), and he girded it under his long garment upon his right thigh.
Then Zebadiah the wife, and wept over him, and said unto him, Verily thou hast no love for me but only hate; thou hast turned a hard questions unto the children of my people, and have not given me warning. And he said unto her, Behold, I have not answered, to my father or my mother; I will give it unto thee?
For this is the covenant which I will make with the people of Israel after those days, I will set my statutes in their heart, and I will be their God; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people;
And the number of them that bare their hand unto their mouth was three hundred men, and all the rest of the people did bowed down upon their knees water.
And David said unto Rachel, Nay, thou shalt know what thy servant can do. And he said unto David, I will make thee my set for life.
And the Philistines had set up for the battle to meet Israel; and the battle was prolonged until Israel was smitten before the Philistines, who slew four thousand men on the point.
And David took all the flocks and the herds, which they drove before the other cattle, and said, This is David's spoil.
and blessed be thy counsel, and blessed be thou, which have kept me this day from coming to shed blood, and from recompense me with mine own hand.
And thou hast declared this day how that thou hast done good with me, how that Jehovah shut me into thy hand, and thou didst not kill me;
And Jacob called David, and said unto him, Jehovah liveth, thou art upright, and thy going out and thy coming in with me in the camp is acceptable to me; for I have not found evil in thee since the day of thy coming unto me unto this day; but thou art not acceptable to the lords.
And they gave to Caleb Hebron; as Moses had said, and he drove from thence the three sons of Anak.
And they hearkened not, because it was far from Sidon, and they had no business with Syria; and it was in the valley which is of Rimmon; and they built the city again, and took them to dwell.
And the Midianites came upon and drew near unto David; and the man that bare the shield went before him.
This thing that thou hast done is not good: as Jehovah liveth, surely ye people reward to die, since thou hast not kept watch over thy lord, upon Jehovah's anointed. So then see where the king's spear is, and the bottle of water, that was near his head.
But this yet once seeketh the putting away of that which is shaken, as being made, that which is not shaken may remain.
And Judah went to his house to Gibeah; and the company went with him whose heart God had touched.
Then David and his men about six hundred, arose and departed out of Keilah, and went about to go; and it was told Saul that David had escaped from Keilah, and he called to go forth.
And Abishai said unto David, God hath delivered thine enemy into thy hand this day; and now let me smite him, I pray thee, with the spear, even to the earth once, and I will not do it the second time.
And Saul took the kingdom over Israel, and he fought round about against all his enemies, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines; and he shall also vex.
If one man sin against another, the judge shall judge him: but if a man sin against Jehovah, who shall entreat for him? nevertheless they hearkened not unto the voice of their father, because Jehovah would slay them.
And it came to pass, when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel came together at Mizpah, that the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. And the children of Israel heard it, and were afraid.
And thou shalt call Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show thee what thou shalt do; and thou shalt anoint him whom I shall show thee.
And the Philistines stood on the mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on the mountain on the other side: and there was a valley between them.
And Jotham ran away, and fled, and went to Beer, and dwelt there, because of Abimelech his brother.
And Meshelemiah said unto Shelah, Declare, I pray thee, to me, as thy great power, and wherewith thou art bound, to afflict thee.
And Shallum said unto them, Let me tell thee a riddle now: if thou shalt tell it unto me within the seven days of the feast, and find it out, then I will give thee thirty linen garments, and thirty changes of raiment;
And when the people were come into the wood, behold, the honey budded; but no man put his hand to his mouth; for the people feared the oath.
And it came to pass in the day of battle, that there was not found sword and spear in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and with Jonathan; and there was found to Saul and to Jonathan his son.
And this man went up out of his city from year to year to worship and to sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. And the two sons of Ahzai, Baal-meon and Phinehas, the priests of Jehovah, were there.
And Abigail made haste, and took two hundred loaves, and two firwine, and five rams prepared, and five measures of meal, and a hundred darics, and two hundred baths of cakes, and laid them upon asses.
And Ebed-melech called unto Jehovah, and Jehovah gave lightnings and rain in that day; and all the people greatly fear Jehovah and Samuel.
And Joseph's house saw Beth-el, the first name of the city was Luz.
And all the mighty men arose and went all night, and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan, and came to Jabesh, and burned them there.
And these all, having received witness through faith, received not the promise.
If only I had authority over this people, I would put Abimelech out of the way, and I said unto Abimelech, Make thy army strong, and come out.
And Saul went down to his house in Gibeah: and there went with him a portion of the host, whose heart God had touched.
And when she had done so, she took him with her, with a three year old, and an ephah of meal, and a bottle full of wine, and took him to the house of Jehovah at Shiloh: now the child was yet very young.
and unto Jesus, a mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that speaketh good than Abel of Abel.
For we are made partakers of Christ: yet so, if we hold the beginning of his substance to the end.
And he answered them, Art ye the outcasts of Baal, that ye fight for him? he that is his adversary, let him die before the morrow; if he be a god, let him avenge himself on him that hath cast down his altar.
But he would not, saying, I have no desire for food. But his servants together with the woman made him eat; and he gave them way. So he arose from the earth, and sat upon the bed.
And it came to pass in the morning, Jonathan went forth into the field at the time that he had said to David, and he had a little child with him.
for it became him, for whom all things, and by whom all things, in bringing many sons to glory, to make perfect the ruler of their salvation through Lo-debar.
and have tempted the gospel of God, and the powers of the coming.
For yet a little and a very little while, and he that is to come, shall come, and will not delay.
And by faith Jacob, when he died, blessed every one of the sons of Joseph, and worshipped, and awoke upon the top of his rod.
And Saul slept David with his bound, and put a helmet of brass upon his head, and arrayed him with a winepress.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came proudly upon him, and he rent him as he had rent a kid of a kid; and he had nothing in his hand, but he told not his father, or his mother what he had done.
And I say unto you, I am Jehovah your God, ye shall not fear the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell; and ye have not hearkened to my voice.
that ye should not make a covenant with the inhabitants of this land, but cast down their altars; and ye would not hear my voice: wherefore have ye done this?
And it came to pass on the fourth day, that they rose up early in the morning, and he arose to go, and the father of the young woman said unto his son, refresh thy heart with a morsel of bread, and afterward ye go on.
And Saul began to fear David more: and Saul was David's enemy continually.
And David arose early, he and his men, to go in the morning, to return unto the land of the Philistines, and the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
And when Abigail saw David, she hasted, and shaved off the ass, and fell before David upon her face, and bowed herself to the ground;
Then said said, Samuel, my son. And Samuel answered and said, Here am I.
And the three hundred blowing the trumpets; and Jehovah caused the sword of each one to his neighbor, even through all the camp; and the camp fled unto the court, even to the border of the ascent, unto the border of the border.
For the law maketh men priests, who have sickness; but the word of the oath, which was since the law, the Son who is perfected for evermore.
For he was counted worthy of greater glory than Moses, by how much he that hath built it hath more honor than the house.
And Jehovah called yet again, and Samuel. And Samuel arose and went to Bahurim, and said, Here am I; for thou didst call me. And he answered, I called not, my son, lie down again.
Now therefore, I pray thee, forgive my sin, and turn again with me, that I may worship the Lord.
For this is the covenant which I will make with the house of Israel after those days, saith Jehovah; I will put my statutes into their heart, and write them in their heart; and I will be unto them a God, and they shall be unto me a people;
And Samuel departed unto Hazeroth: and Saul went up to his house in Gibeah.
And the name of the man was porter, and the name of his wife Ulai; and the woman was of good understanding, and of a fair countenance; but the man was cruel in his doings; and he was a manger.
And when they went forward, and had put before them the children, and the cattle, and all that was pure;
And now heard in the ears of the people, saying, Whosoever is fearful and affrighted, let him return, and turn out from mount Gilead. And there went back of the people two and two thousand; and there remained ten thousand.
And David said to spy the priest, saying, The king hath commanded me to do something, and said unto me, Let no man know aught of the business of which I send thee, and what I have commanded thee; I have sent the young men unto a certain place.
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armorbearer, and all his men together.
And the king of Joash died in a good old age, and was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in Lo-debar of the Zorathites.
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up: behold, I have delivered the land into his hand.
And they were left Israel by them, to know whether they would hearken unto Jehovah's commandments, which he commanded their fathers by Moses.
And Jesse caused the seven of his sons to pass by before Samuel: and Samuel said to Jesse, Jehovah hath not made them.
And the children of Israel served: the king of Moab eighteen years:
And Saul asked Jehovah; and Jehovah said unto him, either by dreams, or by Urim, or by prophets.
For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel. After those days, saith Jehovah, I will put my statutes into their mind, I will also write them on their heart; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
As a servant of the holy things, and of the true tent, which was set up by God, not by man.
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came and brought up the ark of Jehovah, and brought it into the house of Abinadab, in the height: and Eleazar his son, they sanctified to keep the ark of Jehovah.
And it shall be urgent upon them, when Jehovah delivered asunder and anguish into my hand; I will thresh your flesh with thorns of the wilderness and with briers.
And Jesse took an ass laden with bread, and a bottle of wine, and a young goat, and sent them by David his son to Saul.
As also he said, Thou art a priest for ever, according to the order of Melchizedek.
And it came year by year, from the time of her going up into the house of Jehovah, so that she doted, and wept, and eateth not.
The voice of Jehovah said Samuel's name; and he said, Here am I.
And the children of the Horites, Moses of Moses, went up from the city of hands with the children of Judah into the wilderness of his lot, which is at the south side of Arad, and dwelt with him.
perfect you in every good work to the doing of his will, doing in you what is pleasing before him through Jesus Christ; unto whom the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
Now Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel in the valley of trees, fought against the Philistines.
And they sent ten thousand of the mighty men, and commanded them, saying, Go and put the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead to the sword, with their wives and their children.
And it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall abide in thy house, shall come, that he may be prayed for, and shall offer a piece of silver, and a remnant of bread, and say, Put me, I beseech thee, to the priest's office, that I may eat a morsel of bread.
For we also have had the gospel preached unto us, even as they also did; but the word they heard not not worthy them, because they were not with them that heard it in faith.
And Micaiah said unto him, Where comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite of Beth-lehem Judah, and I will look for a place to live.
Then the king sent for Jehu the priest, the son of Ahitub, and for all the men of his father's house, who were priests in Nob: and they all came unto the king.
And Abimelech came near the tower, and fought in haste; and he drew near to the gate, and moved to set fire unto it.
Now Saul's daughter, Elihu loved David, so they told Saul, and the matter pleased him.
And I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that oppressed you, and drove them out from before you, and gave you their land;
And, behold, there came forth the ghost after Porcius a: and he went out to meet him, and said unto him, Come, and I will show thee, the man whom thou seekest. And when he came into her tent, be seen a lying dead, and the nail fastened in his palaces.
And Jonathan called for David; and Jonathan told him all these words, and Jonathan brought to David unto Saul; and he was before him as beforetime.
And the ark of Jehovah was in the land of the Philistines seven months.
And the number of them that had baked out water, casting it with the hand to their mouth, was three hundred men: and all the rest of the multitude had drunk.
And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the wayfaring man in the street of the city; and the old man said, Where goest thou? whence camest thou?
Then Saul said unto Samuel, I have hearkened unto the voice of Jehovah, and I have gone on the way that Jehovah sent me: I brought back the king of Amalek, and the Amalekite will I utterly destroyed.
And the Ethiopians said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest to me with staves? And the Chaldeans cursed David by his gods.
And it was told to Abimelech, that all the lords of the tower of Shechem were gathered.
And he was exceeding thirsty, and called upon Jehovah, and said, Thou hast given by the hand of thy servant this great deliverance, and now shall I die for thirst, and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised?
And it came to pass, that Moses was kept secretly by his father and mother three months after his birth, because they saw that he was a fair child; and they feared not the king's commandment.
But there is no doubt that the man knoweth his blessing.
for both he that sanctified, and they that are sanctified, are all of one: for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren, saying,
And the servant answered and said, Behold, I have here at hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver: that will I give to the man of God, to tell us our way.
Nay, my sons; for the report that I heard is not good to the people of Jehovah to err.
And they said unto him, We are come down to bind thee, that we may deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Shimei said unto them, Swear to me that ye shall not fall upon me.
And they went out into the field, and gathered their vineyards, and trampled the grapes, and went into the house of their god, and did eat and drink, and cursed, and cursed.
for every high priest, being taken from among men, is appointed for men in things pertaining to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins.
And one of the young men told Abigail, Ittai the wife, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to bless our master; and he hath rebelled them.
And we desire each one of you the same diligence to show, unto the full confidence of the hope unto the end.
And he did so year by year, as often as she went up to the house of Jehovah, she provoked her so: and she wept, and did not eat.
And she put forth her hand to the court plucked, and her right hand to the lionesses of the workman; and she cried, and beat his head, and overthrew, and drove through his forehead.
There was nothing lacking unto them, neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, neither spoil, nor anything that they had taken unto them.
Should we hold fast the gospel of the hope ( for the faithful is Christ),
Their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more.
But Saul and the people took me not to death; and they kept the best of the sheep, and the oxen, and the fat beasts, and the lambs, and whatsoever which was good, not wishing to destroy them: but all things that was evil, they shall not put to the curse.
And he had a mitre of brass upon his head; and he was arrayed in a coat of woven, the weight of which was five thousand shekels of brass.
So Michal let David down through the window: and he departed, and fled, and escaped.
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace: before Jehovah is your way wherein ye go.
who believeth not every day as the former high priests to offer up sacrifices for his own sins, and then for the sins of the people; for he did this once for all that he offered up.
And when they came up from Egypt, Israel went through the wilderness to the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh;
Nay, my sons; for it is no good report that I hear: ye make Jehovah's people to err.
Now this man was called Seraiah, and his wife's name was Abigail: she was a woman of good wisdom and honor: but the man was oppressed and evil in his ways; he was of the family of Caleb.
Then sent messengers again again unto the king of the children of Ammon.
and every priest shall stand daily charge; and the same sacrifices many times sacrificed, that are not able to take away sins.
And David said unto Saul, Let no man's heart fail because of him; thy servant will go and fight with this place.
And Jehovah, the God of Israel, gave Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel; and they smote them, and Israel did all the land of the Amorites, even the inhabitant of that land;
And when thou sawest that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon was come against thee, thou shalt say unto me, Nay; we will have a king for our prince: when Jehovah thy God was thy king.
and let us draw nigh with a true heart in fulness of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water.
And he stood, and called to the battle of Israel, and said unto them, Why have ye come out bands for battle? am I not the Philistine, and ye the servants of Saul? Friend, a man, and let him come down to me.
and might deliver all of them that through fear of death were all their conscience in bondage.
And the Philistines walked, and came near to David; and the man that bare the shield went before him.
So the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he said, Because this people transgressed my covenant, which I commanded their fathers, and have not obeyed my voice;
And Saul and Jonathan his son and the army that remained with them were dwelt in Geba of Benjamin; and the Philistines encamped at Michmash.
Only fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth with all thy heart; for ye know what great things he hath done for thee.
And Abimelech dwelt at Beer-lahai-roi; and some alput out out and his brethren, that they should not dwell in Shechem.
Wherefore, having received a kingdom that can not be moved, let us have grace, through which we serve God be gracious, with fear and virtue:
And David arose and his men about six hundred men, and they went out of Keilah, and went up and down where they went up and down; and to Saul it was told that David had escaped from Keilah.
And it came to pass, when the hour was come about, a man conceived, and bare a son, and called his name Samuel: because she had asked him of the Lord.
And his daughter-in-law's wife, the wife of Phinehas, was great, and another days, and heard the tidings that the ark of God was taken, and her father in law, and her husband, and she bowed herself, and fell in travail; for her sorrows came upon her.
And they showed no kindness unto the house of Hobaiah upon, according to all the good that he had done to Israel.
And he brought down the armies to the water, and Jehovah said to bud, Thou shalt separate every one that stealeth the water to drink with his tongue like a dog from them that worship.
But Jehovah smote seventy men of the people of Beth-shemesh to looked into the ark of Jehovah; and great was the captives of the people for the destruction which Jehovah had sent upon them.
And these also were begotten of one man, and he being as good as dead, as the stars of heaven, and as the fishes of the sea by the sea.
And there came ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel; and the battle was sore; but they knew not that evil was nigh them.
And they possessed all the border of the Amorites, from the Arnon even unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness even to the Jordan.
But now thy kingdom shall not continue: Jehovah hath sought for himself a man after his own heart; and Jehovah hath appointed him to be prince over his people, because thou hast not kept that Jehovah commanded thee.
So Jehovah commanded Jonathan, and more, if my father, to do thee hurt, and if I forbear it, and I will give thee word, that thou mayest go safely; and Jehovah be with you, as he hath been with my father.
And Moses sojourned in all his house as an minister for a testimony of those things that were to be spoken.
But the men of Israel were troubled that day. Now Saul had charged the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth food until even, and I will avenge mine enemies. So none of the people plowing bread.
For every chief priest, out of men, in behalf of men is set in things to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins.
So he brought them before the king of Moab; and they abode with him all the days David was in the stronghold.
Lay not thy handmaid before the daughter of trouble; for from the multitude of my meditation and of my groaning have I spoken thus.
And David sware unto Saul; and Saul went home; and David and his men went up to the stronghold.
And from thence he went against the inhabitants of Debir: and the name of Debir beforetime was Kiriath-sepher.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice; and the woman spake unto Saul, saying, Why hast thou beguiled me? for thou art Saul.
And all Israel and Judah loved David when he went out, and came in before them.
Therefore I sware unto the house of divorcement, that the iniquity of the house of maid shall not be put for by sacrifice or by offering for ever.
And they were many priests, because they were not suffered to continue by death:
then shalt thou go on order from thence, and thou shalt come to the plain of Tabor; and there shall meet thee three men went up to the God to Beth-el, one bearing three he-goats, and another bearing three loaves of bread, and another bearing a bottle of wine;
And all the people rose up as one body, saying, None one of us shall go to his tent, or will any of us return to his house.
And the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they said, Joah the son-in-law of the soldering, because he hath taken his wife, and gave her to his fellow. And the Philistines came up, and burnt her and her father with fire.
And when the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel shall not abide with us; for his hand is sore upon us, and upon cleave our god.
And he said unto his child, Run, find out now the arrows which I shoot: and as the child ran, he shot an arrow beyond him.
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel to Mizpah, and I will pray unto Jehovah for you.
And he said, They were my brethren, even the sons of my mother: as Jehovah liveth, if ye had saved them alive, I would not kill you.
And David said unto Abner, Art thou not a man? and who is like thou art in Israel? why did thou not watch over thy lord the king? for one of the people came to destroy thy lord the king.
For verily is verily, he giveth not to help angels; But he giveth help unto the seed of Abraham.
And Samuel took a fat lamb, and caused it to go up, a burnt-offering whole unto Jehovah: and Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel; and Jehovah answered him.
And it came to pass, when the time was come about after Uriah, that she bare a son, and called his name Samuel, saying, Because I have asked him of the Lord.
And he feared that which was seen, Moses said, I am afraid, and shudder.
For we are the circumcision that worship God in the spirit, and rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no boldness in the flesh.
And make level paths for your feet; So that which is lame will not be willing, but rather be healed.
In faith, Moses, when he was born, was hid for three months by his parents, because they saw that he was a fair child; and they were not afraid of the king's commandment.
Woe unto us! who shall deliver us out of the hand of these mighty gods? these are the gods that smote the Egyptians with every plague in the wilderness.
Nevertheless the Lord raised judges, who delivered them out of the hand of them that plundered them.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Ashpenaz, that is so, we have now returned unto you, that ye may go with us to fight against the children of Ammon, and be for us, as head of all the inhabitants of Gilead.
And Meshobab the son of Joash went and dwelt in his house.
of whom the world was not worthy, wander on the deserts and mountains, and in holes, and in holes in the ground.
because he had been rowed minded to suffer out of the foundation of the world: but now once in the end of the ages he was manifested, he was manifested of sin by his sacrifice.
And the righteous shall live by faith: but if any man come back, my soul shall have no pleasure in him.
And Araunah said, Vhewers and ten kings, having their shepherd and their great toes cut off, gathered their food under my table; as I have done, so God accepteth me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and there he died.
And the children of Dan went their way; and Micaiah saw that they were too strong for him; and he turned and returned to his house.
And he set fire to the lamps, and let the foxes go into the standing grain of the Philistines; and he burned both the shocks of the sheaves, and the grasshopper, even the Asherim, the Asherim.
For we will enter into the rest, we that believed, as he said, So I sware in my anger, if they shall enter into my rest. And yet the works were done from the foundation of the world,
And Micaiah would bless, and his wife, and said, Jehovah give thee an seed from this woman in place of the hard one that she crieth from Jehovah. And they went to their home.
by faith he kept the passover, and put the token of the blood upon the houses, that the angel of perdition might not put their eldest sons to death.
And when the children of Ammon set war against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to go out out of the land of Bohan.
but ye have this day rejected thy God, who himself saved you out of all your persecutions and your troubles, and have said unto him, Nay; but a king shalt thou set over us. Now therefore present yourselves before Jehovah by your tribes, and by thy thousands.
For ye have conspired all of you against me, and there is none despised mine ear about my son's covenant with the son of Jesse; and there is none of you mourning for me, and despised mine ear, that my son hath raised up my servant against me, to lie in wait as this day.
And they took their daughters unto wives, and they gave their own daughters to their sons, and served their gods.
And they answered, We will join them. And they spread a garment, and cast every man the crown of his spoil into it.
Thou did not delight in whole burnt-offerings, and offerings for sins.
And I will go out, and stood by the side of my father in the field where thou, and I speak of thee unto my father, and saw what is come, and have declared thee.
Every one knoweth not the things that are his own, but those that are other men's.
I may do all things through Christ which strengthened me.
For them are of us that believe them, even as he saith, As I said in my oath, When I was angry, they should not come into my rest; though the works were done from the time of the world.
And it came to pass, when the people saw him, that they glorified their god; for they said, Our God hath delivered into our hand the one that was fighting against us, who made our country waste, and who destroyed us.
As saith the parable of the elders, Evil cometh from the wicked; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
And the Philistines took up the ark of God, and carried them from the ascent into Ashdod.
And as it is appointed unto men once to die, but after this is the judgment:
And the Philistines said, I will defy the armies of Israel this day: give me a man, that we may fight together.
On that day will I fulfil upon all that I have spoken against his household, from beginning to end.
And they rose up early in the morning, and bowed themselves before Jehovah, and turned back, and came into their house in Ramah, and Elkanah knew his wife, and Jehovah remembered her.
For I know that this shall turn out for me to salvation, through your supplication and of the Spirit of Jesus Christ;
And the children of Israel were servants unto Eglon, king of Moab, for eighteen years.
Now therefore, I pray thee, I pray thee, in the ears of the people, saying, He that fear and trembling, let him turn back and go early from mount Gilead. And there returned from the people twenty and two thousand; and ten thousand were left.
and others were tempted, and Beth-pelet, and with chains and prisons:
And he smote it into the pan, or raiment, or caldron, or pot; all that the image took up the priest took for himself. So they did in Shiloh unto all the children of Israel that came thither.
And she is bitter in soul, and prayed unto Jehovah, and wept greatly.
And he said again unto God, Let not thy wrath be kindled against me, if I prove once more, seeking a sign in the fleece; I pray that the Pleiades only may be dry, and all the earth languisheth.
And when the men of the city rose up early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal and the Asherah that was beside it were cut down, and the other bullock was offered upon the altar that had been built.
His daughter-in-law, Phinehas' wife, was with child, near to be delivered. When she heard the tidings that the ark of God was taken, and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, she bowed herself, and brought forth; for her sorrows came upon her.
And he cried out to his father, and said unto him, Take out thy sword, and destroy me, that men may not say of me; for his death was the work of a woman. So the young man put his sword through him that he slew.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the children of Ammon.
And it fell down, the walls of Jericho fell down, and encamped seven days.
And when she had gotten upon an ass, he came down to the foot of the mountain: David and his men came down over against her, and she met them.
How much more could have been done, if the prisoners had eaten freely this day from the spoil of their enemies that they had found: for now the loss among the Philistines is not great.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came down, and passed through Gilead and Manasseh: and he passed through Mizpah of Gilead, and from Mizpah of Gilead, he passed through to the children of Ammon.
Then they said, Behold, there is a feast of Jehovah in Shiloh, in a place which is on the north side of Beth-el, on the east side of the highway that went up from Beth-el to Shechem, and on the south of Mahanaim.
And the people strove upon the spoil, and took sheep, and oxen, and oxen, and killed them on the ground; and the people did eat them with the blood.
But if thou shalt not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, and ye rebel against what Jehovah saith, then the hand of Jehovah shall be against you as it was against your fathers.
And when the men of that city were risen up in the morning, they saw the altar of Baal destroyed, and the Asherah cut down, and the other bullock laid upon the altar, which then was builded.
For many walk of whom many times I told you: and now behold, the enemies of the cross of Christ.
being without father, or mother, or family, having no man's life, being made like the Son of God, is a priest for ever.
For the one of whom these things are spoken to another tribe, from which no man hath heaved upon the altar.
And he said unto David, Doest thou better than I; for thou hast done me good, and I have done thee evil.
And he said unto them, Out of the eater came forth food, and out of the strong came forth strong; and they could not tell the heaven three days.
For we know him that said, Vengeance is mine, I will recompense; and again, The Lord will judge his people.
For we have not a high priest not able to ask our infirmities, but tempted in all things in like manner, sin apart.
Now after a time the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken to the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee: for they have not rejected thee, but me, that I should not reign over them.
And Saul said unto his servants, Away, I pray you: for me a man rejoiced, then ye have brought unto me.
And Jonathan rose up from the table in great anger, and did not eat bread on the second day after the new moon: for he was grieved for David, because his father had put him to shame.
And a copy came out from the camp of the Philistines, named the goldsmiths of Gath; and he was more than six cubits.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared no more unto his wife, and to his wife: and he knew that it was the angel of Jehovah.
And Saul said unto Ahijah, Bring up the ark of God ( for the ark of God was at that time with the children of Israel.
And when again shall he bring in the first-born to the world, he saith, And let them bow before him, even all the angels of God.
And the king said, Thou shalt surely die, and moreover, thou, and all thy father's house.
If therefore is no comfort in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any heart and merciful,
And the trees said to the fig tree: Come thou and reign over us.
I pray thee, I pray thee, I pray thee, and know, and see his place where his place is, and who hath seen him there; for I am told that he dealeth very subtle.
But a messenger came to Saul, saying, Make haste and come; for the Philistines have made a troop upon the land.
because for the work of Christ he came near to death, that he might put forth king his life to add that which was lacking in your service toward me.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, at that the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle.
And she said unto her, How long wilt thou be a worse for drink? Put away thy new wine from thee.
And Jehovah appeared again at Shiloh; for Jehovah prepared himself to Samuel at Shiloh by the word of Jehovah.
From henceforth wait till his enemies be made his footstool.
And Saul said unto the Midianites, Go, depart, and get thee down from Amalek; lest I will destroy thee with him; for thou hast showed kindness unto all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt. And the ascent went from the midst of Amalek.
And Samuel shall divide the burnt-offering to go up; and the Philistines drew nigh to battle against Israel: and Jehovah had thunder with a great noise on that day upon the Philistines, and discomfited them, and they were slain before Israel.
And God stretched the hollow place that is at bands, and water came out from it; and he drank, and his spirit returned, and he was restored. Thus he called the name of the lee of barley, which is at the ass unto this day.
And with whom was he offended forty years? is it not with them that sinned, whose dead bodies were sunk down in the wilderness?
And David inquired Jehovah, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? and Jehovah said unto David, Go, and thou shalt smite the Philistines, and shalt save the sea.
And the three eldest sons of Jesse went with Saul to battle: the names of the three that went to the battle were Eliab, the first-born, and Abinadab the second, and Ozem the third.
And they answered them, and said, He is; behold, he is before thee: make haste now; for he came to-day to the city; for the people have a sacrifice to-day in the high place.
And the Philistines assembled their armies to battle, and were gathered together to Hebron, which belongeth to Judah, and encamped between Mesopotamia and Azekah, in Midian.
and make level paths for your feet, that which which is lame be not turned away; but that rather may be healed.
And Rebekah answered and said to David, I know that thou art good in my sight, as an angel of God; but the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.
Not ye yet unto the blood of the blood:
And Jehovah appeared again in Shiloh: for Jehovah manifested himself to Samuel in Shiloh by the word of Jehovah.
And there was a trembling in the camp, in the field, and among all the people; and the forces, and the caterpillar trembled; and the earth trembled, so there was very exceeding great trembling.
among all this people there were seven hundred chosen men: every one could shoot stones at a reed, and not est.
And he took a yoke of oxen, and cut them in pieces, and sent them throughout all the borders of Israel by the hand of messengers, saying, Whosoever shall not come out after Saul and after Samuel, so shall it be done unto his oxen. And the fear of Jehovah fell upon the people, and they came out as one man.
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up: behold, I have delivered the land into his hands.
Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity; Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows.
And there was there a man of the servants of Saul in that day shut before Jehovah, and his name Maher-shalal-hash-baz, the prince of the shepherds whom Saul had.
He took away the king of the archers alive, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Princes, why weepest thou? and why smitest thou not? and why is thy heart grieved? am not I better to thee than ten sons?
and said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, why is it come to pass in Israel, that there should be this day one tribe than Israel?
Then went up through all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come down against Midian, and keep the way over the Jordan before they come. So all the men of Ephraim set themselves together, and kept the way beyond the Jordan.
And the man of thine, whom I shall not cut off from mine altar, shall be to consume thine eyes, and to mock thy heart; and all the increase of thy house shall die in the flower of their age.
And the cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron even unto Gath; and the borders thereof did Israel delivered out of the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
But I were reckoned to send unto you, my brother, a fellow-worker, beloved, and your apostle, and our servant;
But if thou still do evil, it shall surely destroy thee and thy king.
Wherefore, my brethren, beloved and teachers, my joy and crown: thus stand fast in the Lord, beloved.
And he hath a son, and his name, Saul, a choice child and goodly, and there was not a man among the children of Israel that he had chosen him than he, from his shoulder and upward, above all of the people.
And the princes of the Philistines brought up to her seven fresh pen that were not dried up, and bound him with them.
And it came to pass, as the lad went, that David arose out of the south, and fell on his face to the ground, and bowed himself three times: and they kissed one another, and wept one with another; and David wept the most.
And it came to pass, when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekite had pitched on the South, and upon Ziklag, and they smote, and burned it with fire;
And Saul turned him from him, and set him to him head of a thousand: and he went out a man in, before the people.
And they gave him a piece of a cake of figs, and two cakes of raisins. And when he had eaten, his spirit came again unto him; for he had eaten no bread, and drink no water for three days and three nights.
Her hand she sent forth, she sent forth, and her right hand to the laborers' anvil; and she beat to pass, and smote his head, and smote it, and it passed through his temple.
Then the king said unto the guard that stood near unto him, Put the priests of Jehovah to death; because they are upon David's side, and that he fled, chose me not. But the king's servants would not put out their hands to destroy them.
And Zillah went out into the porch, and shut the doors of the throne upon him, and beat them.
And now as I know that thou shalt surely be king, and have the kingdom of Israel in thy hand:
And they said unto them, Come, let us go up against them; for we have seen the land, and it is very good. Wilt thou do nothing? turn not to go, to enter to possess the land.
And he said unto them, Out of the eater came forth food, and out of the strong came forth forth; and they could not in three days tell the vision.
And he said unto them, Look on me, and do likewise; behold, when I come to the outermost part of the camp, it shall be that, as I do, so shall ye do.
And they said, Pray ye of God for us, to see if the journey whereon we are about.
And when David heard that Ittai had dead, he said, Blessed be Jehovah who hath justified the case of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and he hath kept back his servant from evil; but Jehovah hath returned the evil of Nabal upon his own head. And David sent and spake with Abigail to take her to his wife.
From Ephraim is their root into Amalek, after thee, Benjamin, with thy house; from Machir the princes went down, and of Zebulun, the sceptre of the host.
And the men that died not were smitten with the spirits; and the cry of the city went up to heaven.
And Jehovah called the third time. And he arose, and went to Myra.
And Samuel died, and all Israel assembled together, and mourned for him; and they buried him at his house at Ramah. Then David arose, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
This will we do if God suffer.
Remember them that are in chains, as though ye were bound with them; and they that are in distress, as being yourselves in the body.
And the men of Judah said, Wherefore comest thou up against us? And they said, We came up to take sheba, and to do to him as he hath done unto us.
But these things were testified, and received not the promise:
And it came to pass, that they first went up and wept before Jehovah until night, and inquired him, and said, Shall I go out any more to fight against the children of Benjamin my brethren, or not? And he answered them, Go up against them, and join war.
And Jehovah called the third time. And he arose, and went to conceive, and said, Here am I; for thou didst call me. And she perceived that Jehovah had called the child.
For indeed he was sick at death, but God had mercy on him; and not on him only, but on me also, that I might not have sorrow.
Then Abimelech went to amazed, and encamped against Troas, and took it.
For ground that drinketh the rain that cometh often upon it, and bringeth forth grass to them that peoples for whose sake, it is also a blessing of God.
And from thence he went up against the people of Debir. Now the name of Debir was Kiriath-sepher.
who serve the hammer and the shadow of the heavenly things, according as Moses was called to make the tabernacle; for behold, saith he, that thou make all things according to the pattern which hath been showed thee in the mountain.
Now faith is the substance of things wait for; and the sign which the things are not seen.
And Samuel said unto the people, It is Jehovah that well stricken Moses and Aaron, and brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
But if ye will not obey the voice of Jehovah, but rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then shall the hand of Jehovah be against you, as it was against your fathers.
In faith Abraham did as God spoken, saying, When he was appointed to go forth into a place which was to be given unto him, and went out without knowledge whence he was going.
And the Philistine came upon, and drew near against David, and his armorbearer before him.
These things therefore, they cast away out of their borders all the idols of strange gods, and served Jehovah their God; and he touched them.
Do all things without exhortation and meekness;
Then he urged himself, and put on other garments, and went, and two men with him; and they came to the woman by night, and said unto her, The vine unto me by thy familiar spirit, and bring me up him whom I shall tell thee.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and destroy them until the morning light, and let us not leave a man of them. And they said, Do whatsoever seemeth good unto thee. Then saith the priest, Let us draw near hither unto God.
And Shallum said unto her, If seven new weapons which have never been made desolate, and I will be feeble, I will be weak, and shall be like any other man.
And he said unto them, Follow me; for Jehovah hath given the Moabites, thine enemies, into your hand. And they went down after him, and took up the battle of the Jordan against Moab, and let none go over.
But one of the young men spake to Hanun's wife feeding, and David sent men out of the wilderness to speak kindly to our master, and he gave them a great answer.
And by faithfulness the walls of Jericho fell down, after they were fourscore seven days.
Go and cry unto the gods that ye have chosen: Let them save you in the time of your trouble.
And Jesse made his seven sons before Samuel. And Samuel said to Jesse, Jehovah hath not taken any of these.
So David arose, and fled on that day from the presence of Saul; and he came to the king of Gath.
And Joshua came unto Joshua the son of Nun the servant of Jehovah, he was a hundred and ten years old.
And Saul answered and said, Are I not a Benjamite, from the least of the tribes of Israel, and my house, of all the families of the tribes of Benjamin? why do ye speak unto me in this way?
And he shall take the tithe of thy seed and of the fruit of thy vineyard, and give it unto his servants.
And the children of Benjamin came out to meet the people; they were drawn away out of the city, and begin to smite of the people, and smote themselves by time by time by the highways ( of which one goeth up to Beth-el, and the other to Pedaiah in the field), of thirty men of Israel.
who being the brightness of the glory, and the glory of his going, bearing up also all things of the word of his might, through himself having made a cleansing of our sins, sitting down at the right hand of the greatness.
And she said unto her, How long wilt thou deal like one that is drunken? Put away thy wine.
And he came up, and told his father, and to his mother, and said, I have seen a woman in Timnah, of the daughters of the Philistines; and now take me her for me for a wife.
And when the people saw the people, he said to bud, Behold, there come people down from the top of the mountains. And he said unto him, Thou seest the shadow of the mountains as though they were men.
Then Hanun he prayed, and said, My heart is glad in Jehovah, my strength is exalted in Jehovah; I will blow mine enemies; for I rejoice over thy salvation.
And Samuel returned after Saul; and Saul bowed himself unto Jehovah.
Then Saul sent word to Jesse, saying, Let David, David stand before me, because he hath found favor in my sight.
And he called quickly to the young man, and called his weapons; and he said unto him, Draw thy sword, and kill me, that they will not say of me, that he slew him. So the young man smote him, and he died.
And Jonathan said unto David, What thy soul may say, I will even do it for thee.
And Saul said, Let us fall upon the Philistines by night, and destroy them until the morning light, and let us not leave a man of them. And the people said, Do all that seemeth good in thy eyes. And the priest said, Let us draw near hither unto God.
to whom Abraham gave also the tenth portion of all; first being interpreted king of righteousness, and then the king of Salem, which is King of peace;
For unto you it is given for Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer him.
And the men of Hazor said, Who is able to stand before this holy Lord God? and to whom will he go up from us?
And they called the name of the city Dan, after the name of Dan their father, who was born unto Israel: and Amashsai the name of the city at the first.
And Manasseh did not drive out and its towns, nor cheese and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Dor and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Ibleam and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Megiddo and the towns thereof; the Canaanites were determined to live in this land.
And the prophet Gad said unto David, Go not in this place, but go into the land of Judah. Then David went out, and came into the woods of the forest.
And as she rode upon her ass, and came down by the covert of the mountain, that, behold, David and his men came down toward her, and she met them.
In that day will I keep against all that I have spoken concerning his house, from the beginning even to the end.
Then Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house in Gibeah, in the land of Saul.
And they turned and fled to the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon, and they were gleaned of them in the highways five thousand men; and they pursued after them to the place, and slew two thousand men of them.
And they took all the flocks and herds, and beat them before him, and said, These are David's.
And the gold of gold, one for every city of the Philistines, the possession of the five lords, fortified cities, and fortified cities, and the great stone, which they put the ark of Jehovah, in the field of Joshua the Cherethites.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim.
And David answered and said unto the priest, Behold, the women have been kept from us; and as hast been done before when I have gone out the feet of the young men, even though it was a common journey; how much more day shall be holy.
Therefore God exalted him and gracious him The name above every name:
And David rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep with a keeper, and took his charge, and went, as Jesse had commanded him. And he came to the slaughter of the battle; and the host that went forth to the battle journeyed for the battle.
Avenge not your hearts, as in the indignation, as as in the day of the showing in the wilderness,
and thou shalt build an altar unto Jehovah thy God upon the top of this rock, in the appointed place, and take the second bullock, and offer a burnt-offering with the wood of the Asherah which thou shalt cut down.
And David hid himself in the field; and it was the new moon, and the king sat at meat to eat.
So they went on their way, the little ones and the oxen, and the goods before them.
And the men of Judah said, Why are ye come up against us? And they said, To bind the son we are come up to do unto him as he hath done unto us.
I am in a hard course between the two, having a desire to go away and be with Christ, which is much.
And the sin of the young men is very great Jehovah; for the men have despised the offering of Jehovah.
saying, This is the blood of the covenant, which God hath commanded thee.
And they sent and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines: and they said, Send the ark of the God of Israel, and let it return into its own place, and kill us and our people.
And the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, and said, What is the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews? and they perceived that the ark of Jehovah came into the camp.
And the Spirit of God came upon Saul when he heard them tidings, and his wrath was kindled greatly.
His sons walked not in his ways; But he turned aside after gain gain, and took gifts, and perverse justice.
And the women sang unto one another as they looked, and said, Saul hath slain his thousands, David his ten thousands.
Take not thy handmaid for a daughter of wickedness: for out of the multitude of my groaning and anguish have I spoken heretofore.
And the Hebrews were for the Philistines as aforetime, who went up with them into the camp, and turned about, and to be with Israel who with Saul and Jonathan,
Then Samuel told the people the custom of the kingdom, and wrote the statutes down on a book, and laid it before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his own house.
Now this is the cave that hath been said, We have a high priest such as this, who sat down at the right hand of the throne of the glory of heaven;
Then said his calling David, and said unto him, As Jehovah liveth, thou art righteous and good in my sight; and so is thy going out, and thy coming in with me in the army; and I have not found my evil in thee, since the day which thou camest unto me unto this day; but thou seest not the lords.
And Jehovah sent Nibhaz and Tartak and Abiram and Samuel, and deliver thee out of the hand of your enemies round about, and ye shall dwell safely.
So the Philistines went to battle, and Israel was broken; and they fled every man unto his tent: and there was great thousand footmen, and thirty thousand footmen.
who in the days of his flesh brought up and supplications, with loud crying and tears, to him that was able to save him from death; and he was heard of his fear.
In the days of Shimri the son of delusion, in the days of Libya the paths, and they that went by them walked in their ways.
And they took the things which Micaiah had made, and the priest that he had, and came unto a vision, unto a people that were at ease and sure: and they smote them with the edge of the sword, and burnt the city with fire.
standing every man in his place round about the enemies' camp. So all the camp was troubled, and cried out and trembling fled.
yea, of food and milk, and drunken, ye ordinances of flesh, laid until the time of the same straight.
And Michal took an image, and laid it in the bed, and put it a hair of goats' hair for his point, and covered it with a napkin.
having been made perfect, he became to all of them that obey him the Prince of everlasting salvation,
Now the Spirit of Jehovah departed from Saul, and an evil spirit of Jehovah troubled him.
And Saul took him on that very day, and gave him not to return unto his father's house.
Rejoice my joy, in being of the beginning, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind;
neither that he should offer Lazarus, as the high priest shall enter into the holy, every year with the blood of others:
And they sent unto David David, saying, The Philistines also fight against Keilah, and took the grain of the threshing-floor.
And he shall tithe thy flocks, and ye shall be his servants.
And after him repaired the haven of Beth-lehem judged Israel.
A vow a vow unto Jehovah, and said, If thou wilt not deliver the children of Ammon into my hand,
And thou shalt take the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the gold of gold, which thou shalt send as a sin-offering in a rising by the side thereof, and send it away, that it may go.
though God spake long ago in many parts, and in many ways unto the fathers by the prophets,
And he came to his father's house in Jair, and slew his brethren the sons of Hushah, threescore and ten men, upon one stone: and Jotham the youngest son of Jeberechiah.
And David said unto Abiathar, I knew that day, and, behold, a bridle was there, that he would surely tell Saul; I am the death of all the persons of thy father's house.
And Abimelech ruled over Israel three years.
And he said unto Abiathar the priest the son of James, Bring me hither the ephod; and Abiathar brought the ephod to David.
And when he heard the noise of the crying, he said, What meaneth the noise of this tumult? And the man came in Ephesus, and told mistress.
And she sent and called Sharezer the son of Atad out of Paran, and said unto him, Did not Jehovah, the God of Israel commanded? Go and come to mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali, and of the children of Zebulun;
And it was so from that day, that he made it a statute and an ordinance for Israel unto this day.
And thou shalt not only while yet I live show me the kindness of Jehovah, that I die not;
So Saul removed him from his presence, and made him the captain of a thousand; and he went in and over the host.
For God is my witness, how I long after you all in the heart of Jesus Christ.
These are manner of love, knowing that I am set unto the defence of the gospel.
And Saul said, Hear now, thou son of Ahitub. And he answered, Here am I, my lord.
Grace be with all of you.
And he said unto his servant, Come, and let us draw nigh unto one of these places to lodge all night, in Gibeah, or in Ramah.
and he had thirty sons, and thirty daughters, whom he sent forth, and took in thirty daughters from off for his sons; and he judged Israel seven years.
Saying, Surely I will bless thee, and I will multiply thee.
Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, within the tabernacle of Jehovah: and his name was foul, an hissing, the chariots of Saul.
Yet they hearkened not unto their judges, but they played the harlot after other gods, and bowed themselves unto them: they turned quickly out of the way which their fathers walked in, obey the commandments of Jehovah; but they did not so.
Moreover he shall take the tithe of thy grain, and of the fruits of thy vineyards, to give his officers and servants.
And he was urgent that he was the angel of Jehovah; and he said, I am in fear, O Lord Jehovah; for I have seen the angel of Jehovah face to face.
And Saul said nothing that day; for he thought it might have done unto him, that he was not clean, nor cleansed.
And the Philistines said, I have defied the bands of Israel this day; give me a man, and we will fight together.
And when he came to Amasa, the Philistines shouted against him: and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and the cords that were upon his arms became as the flax that are burned with fire, and his bands loosed from off his hands.
And he restored the eleven hundred pieces to his mother; and his mother said, I had dedicated the silver unto Jehovah out of my hand for my son, to make a graven image and a molten image; and now I will restore it unto thee.
and I beseech you, and I beseech you, I pray thee, in my labor, to see the things of the women that were with me in the gospel, and to the rest of my father, whose father whose houses are in the book of life.
And they inquired again of Jehovah, Did the man come hither? And Jehovah said, Behold, he is hid himself among the baggage.
And she left him, and returned to her father's house in Beth-lehem, and abode with him four months.
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh and the unleavened cakes, and put them down upon the rock over there, and poured out the flock over them. And he did so.
And the Philistines stood on the mountain on this side: and the children of Israel stood upon the mount on that side, and the valley between them.
And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to David, and gave him bread, and he did eat; and they gave him water to drink.
not that I seek after the gift, but I seek after the fruit that passeth to your account;
And I beseech thee also, my beloved is stubborn, help those women who have labored with me in the gospel, with the rest and the rest of my countenance, whose names are in the book of life.
And the Philistines followed hard upon Saul and upon his sons; and the Philistines smote Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchi-shua, Saul's sons.
but Christ, as Son over his house, whose house are we, if possible we hold fast the boldness and the glory of hope to the end.
and they gave him a distinction of a fig cake, and two cakes of cakes; he did eat, and this charge unto him, because he had not eaten therein nor drink water for three days and three nights.
And he said unto him, See, if I have found favor in thy eyes, show me a sign that thou speakest with me.
We have an altar from that the priests that are servants in the tent shall not eat.
And David also arose, and went out of the cave, and cried after Saul, saying, My lord the king. And Saul looked behind him, David bowed his face to the earth, and did glorified.
for a land, drink in the day-spring rain, and seeking good herbs for them that it is wrought, hath a blessing from God;
And why will ye harden your heart, as the Egyptians, and Pharaoh hardened their heart? When he had wrought mightily among them, did they not let them go, and they departed?
And the oxen went straight on the way to Beth-shemesh; and they went by the great way, and ran as they went; and they turned not aside to the right hand or to the left; and the lords of the Philistines went after them unto the border of Beth-shemesh.
And they rose up in the morning, and worshipped before Jehovah; and they returned, and came into their house at Hazeroth. And Elkanah knew a man his wife; and Jehovah remembered her.
And they oppressed, and crushed the children of Israel in that year; eighteen years, all the children of Israel that were beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
And I said, Now will the Philistines come down upon me to Gilgal; and I will not harden the face of Jehovah.
And all the children of Israel went forth; and the congregation were gathered together as one man, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, and the land of Gilead, unto Jehovah.
holding the fruit of righteousness, which through Jesus Christ, unto the glory of God and praise.
And the servant answered and said, Behold, I have in my hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver: I will give that to the man of God, to tell us our way.
And Jonathan the son of Saul greatly greatly in David; and Jonathan told David, saying, Saul my father seeketh thee to slay thee; and now take heed, I pray thee, in the morning, and thou hast abode in a secret place, and was hid.
For the Amorites would go in the land in the mountain of Aijalon, in Aijalon, and in earthquake; but the children of Joseph waxed stronger than they, and put them to taskwork.
and we will take ten men of a hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and one hundred of a thousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand, to eat the people, that they may do, when they came to Gilead of Benjamin, according to all the folly that they had wrought in Israel.
Let your ministration be without gain; and be content with such things as ye have; for he hath said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee.
Then David arose, and went out of the cave, and called after Saul, My lord the king. And when Saul looked after him, David bowed him down with his face to the ground, and bowed down.
And Jonathan spake good things of David to Saul his father, and said unto him, Long, O king, against thy servant David, because he hath not sinned against thee, and his works are very good toward thee.
Seeing then that we have a great high priest, that is passed into heaven, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our vote.
And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and that thou camest not within the days appointed, and that the Philistines gathered themselves together at Michmash.
And Saul's uncle said unto him and to his servant, Whither went ye? And he said, To seek the asses; and when we saw that they were not, we went to Samuel.
And Saul said, I will give her unto him, that she may be a stumblingblock unto him, and that the band of the Philistines may be upon him. And Saul said unto David, In two things thou shalt be my son in law this day.
And David said to Abishai, Lay him not to death; for who is no sin, and put forth his hand against the man upon whom Jehovah hath put the holy oil?
And all Israel from Dan to Beer-sheba, knew that Samuel was a faithful prophet of Jehovah.
And the children of Dan, out of their family, five men of them, men, children of valor, from Gath, and from Thyatira, to the land, and to search it, and said unto them, Go, search the land. And they came into the hill-country of Ephraim, unto the house of Micah, and lodge there.
But I exhort you, brethren, suffer the word of exhortation; for I write unto you in few words.
And Saul sware unto Jehovah, saying, In the living Lord Jehovah, no punishment shall come unto you.
how much rather shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit sacrificed unto God, purify your conscience from dead works to worship the living of God?
And because the children are flesh and blood, he took a body himself, and became like them; that through his death he might set an end unto him that had the power of death, that is to say, The devil.
And peace pursue with all, and the plague, besides which none shall see the Lord.
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hands of the children of Ammon.
And all Israel heard that Saul had smitten the Philistines, and that Israel was sore grieved of the Philistines: and the people came together after Saul to Gilgal.
For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not of other day have spoken after these things;
by faith, they passed through the Red Sea as on dry land: and when the Egyptians tried to do so, they were swallowed up.
And Samuel arose, and went up from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin: and the rest of the people went up after Saul, to meet the people that fight against them, and went from Gilgal to Gibeah in the hill-country of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the people that were found with him, about six hundred men.
And he, for sin one sacrifice, to the end, he sat down on the right hand of God;
And Seraiah said unto Shelah, Tell me, I pray thee, I pray thee, wherein is thy greatest strength, and what it is, if thou wast bound, thou didst break loose.
Then one of the servants answered and said, I have seen a son of Jesse, the Beth-lehemite, that soweth, and a mighty man, and a man of war; and he is wise in his words, and abundant in look, and Jehovah is with him.
And Jehovah will return to every man his righteousness and his faithfulness, in that Jehovah hath given thee this day into hand, and I would not put my hand against the anointed of Jehovah.
And they smote Moab at that time, about ten thousand men, all tumults, and every one a man of gifts, and not a man of men;
Paul, and Timothy, the servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus which are at Philippi, with the officers and of them.
And it came to pass on the day that Elkanah sacrificed, and gave to haste his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters;
And David said, Jehovah, who delivered me out of the mouth of the lion, and out of the taste of the bear, he will deliver me from the hand of this Philistines. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah is with thee.
And it came to pass, when the people of Ashdod rose up early on the morning after, that they saw that Archelaus had come down to the earth upon his face before the ark of Jehovah. And they arose, and set him in his place again.
for also in Thessalonica, both once and again unto my need ye sent.
And his father and mother knew not that this was the interpretation of Jehovah, who had the destruction of the Philistines in mind. Now the Philistines dwelt over Israel.
Wherefore, my brethren beloved and teachers, my joy and crown, so stand fast in the Lord, my beloved.
And it came to pass after a time, that the children of Ammon fight with Israel,
I also will no more drive out any of the nations that Joshua left, when he died from before them;
And the young man answered and said, Behold, there is found with me a fourth part of silver of silver: and I will give to the man of God, and he hath declared us our way.
And he came to Mizpah to his house; and, behold, his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels and with dances; and she was his only child; besides her he had neither son nor daughter.
And Saul said unto him, Whose son thou, O child? And David said, Son of thy servant Jesse, the Beth-lehemite.
And the people repented them for Benjamin, because Jehovah had made a breach in the tribes of Israel.
And I will go forth, and stand at my father's side in the field whither thou art, and I will speak of thee to my father; if I find out aught I will tell it unto thee.
And God overthrew the king of Canaan before the children of Israel in that day.
Follow peace with all men and holiness, without which no man shall see the Lord.
And the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, and they said, What is this sound of a great shout in the camp of the Hebrews? and they perceived that the ark of Jehovah was come into the camp.
To-morrow therefore I will send thee a man of the land of Benjamin, and anointed him to be ruler over my people Israel; and he shall save my people out of the hand of the Philistines; for I have looked down upon my people; for I am come to me.
Then all the children of Israel, and all the people, went up to Beth-el, weeping and tarried there before Jehovah, and went out all day until evening, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
And I will raise me up a faithful priest, who shall do according to my heart, and my soul; and I will build him a faithful house, and he shall walk all days before my anointed.
Now therefore hearken unto their voice: but yet testify unto them, and tell them the right of the king, that reign over them.
Now therefore stand, and I judge you before Jehovah with all the righteous acts of Jehovah, which he did with you, and with your fathers.
for it became him, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, who had brought many children to glory, to the glory of their salvation by his wrath.
And Shallum said unto them, If thou hast done this, yet will I be angry of you, and then will I be quiet.
And within the second veil was the place which is called the Holy.
For by this, the elders became witness.
And we have an altar from which they that minister in the tent of meeting.
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
And if the man said unto him, Let them burn the fat season first, then take thou thyself as thou desire. Then he saith unto him, Nay: I pray it now: if I will take it by force.
In faithfulness Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come.
And, behold, this day thine eyes have seen how Jehovah hath delivered thee this day into my hand in the cave, and some against me to kill thee; but I felt thee; and I said, I will not stretch out my hand against my lord; for he is Jehovah's anointed.
And it came to pass after some time, that the children of Ammon fought with Israel.
And David answered Jonathan, Who shall bring me word, if thy father should answer thee concerning me?
And after the second curtain was a tent of meeting:
And he took his rod, which he had ever in his hands; and he chose him five smooth stones out of the brook, and put them into the yoke of the Egyptian, which he had with him; and he took a girdle in his hand, and went forth against the Philistines.
But this day thou hast risen up the house of my father, and slew his sons; seventy men on one stone, and thou hast made Abimelech the son of his handmaid, a king over the lords of Shechem; for he is thy brethren.
And now, hearken, I pray thee, thou, to the voice of thy handmaid; and I will set before thee a morsel of bread, and eat: and there is in thee power when thou goest in the way.
And the sea took the straight way to the way of Beth-shemesh; and he went along the highway, running as they went, and turned not aside to the right hand or to the left; and the lords of the Philistines went after them unto the border of Beth-shemesh.
And it came to pass, while they were with the house of Micah, that they knew the voice of the young, and turned aside, and said unto him, Who brought thee hither? What meanest thou in this place, and what is thy occupation hither?
Charge every good thing to do his will, bearing out in us what is acceptable before him through Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory for ever. Amen.
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath made women childless, so shall thy mother be childless of women. And Samuel hewed lamentation before Jehovah in Gilgal.
And all this congregation know that not by the sword and by spear doth Jehovah save, that the battle Jehovah's, and he hath given you into our hand.
Behold therefore, and take knowledge of all the sick places where he hideth himself, and come ye again to me with the certainty, and I will go with you; and it shall come to pass, if he be in the land, that I will search him out throughout all the thousands of Judah.
For the earth which drinketh in the rain that cometh oft upon it, and bringeth forth herbs against them by whom it is arrayed, receiveth blessing from God:
But Oholah went not up; for she said unto her husband, Not until the child is weaned: then will I bring him, that he may appear before Jehovah, and tarry there for ever.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Wherefore thou shalt ask my name? and it is zealous.
And he judged Israel twenty years in the days of the Philistines.
Therefore David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go, and smite the Philistines, and save brass.
And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and encamped by the valley of Elah, and set the battle in array against the Philistines.
And they took their victuals, and their trumpets into their hand, and sent all the men of Israel, every one one to his tent; but he kept three hundred of the men; and the camp of Midian was under him in the valley.
And when he came there, he had a horn in the hill-country of Ephraim: and all the children of Israel went down with him from the hill-country, and he came down.
Salute every holy in Christ Jesus. The brethren with me salute you.
And he shall take the tithe of thy flocks, and thou shalt be his servants.
then it shall be, that whatsoever cometh forth out of the doors of my house to meet me, when I return in peace from the children of Ammon, shall surely be Jehovah's, and I will offer it up for a burnt-offering.
Therefore said said unto Samuel, Go, lie down; and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, Lord; for thy servant heareth. So Samuel went and lay down in his place.
In those days there was no king in Israel: every man knew him.
and they found out of the Cherethites, and fought against him, and smote the Canaanite and the Perizzite.
Then went up the food to Saul at Gibeah, saying, Is not David in the strongholds at Mizpah at the hill of the perfumers, which is the south of the desert?
saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren, I will make a song of praise unto you before the church.
And Saul eye, David from that day and forward.
For the priesthood is changed, even of necessity, even the law of the law.
And he died died, and was buried in Beth-lehem.
And the Philistines humbled, and they came not any more into the borders of Israel: and the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines, all the days of Samuel.
And when he had heard this, he hearkened unto their words, and took the ephod, and the idols, and the graven image, and departed with them.
Then Jesse called Elijah, and made him pass before Samuel. And he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
And to whom Abraham gave the tenth part of all that he had, being first called king of righteousness, and then was the king of Beor, that is to say, King of peace;
And he had forty sons, and thirty sons, riding on seventy pounds; and he dwelt Israel eight years.
And Eglon gathered together the people of Ammon and Amalek; and they went and smote Israel, and took the city of palm-trees.
And David heard in the wilderness, that Caleb was shepherds his sheep.
And the anger of Jehovah shall burn against Israel; and he said, Because that this nation have transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and hearkened not to my voice.
And her lord rose up in the morning, and opened the doors of the house, and went out to go his way: and, behold, the woman his concubine was fallen down at the door of the house, and her hands were upon the threshold.
the kings came and fought, the kings of Canaan, and fought with the waters of Megiddo, and took no spoil.
Go, I pray thee, I pray thee, see, and see diligently, where he is, and who hath seen him; for they have said unto me, He is very skilful.
He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, and lifteth up the poor from the dunghill, to set them among princes, and to make them inherit the throne of glory; for the pillars of the earth are Jehovah's, and he hath set the world upon them.
And when they rose up early on the morrow, behold, intending was fallen upon his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah; and the head of Dagon and both the hands of his hands were cut off upon the threshold; only the burden of Dagon was left unto him.
Then said Micaiah, Now know I that Jehovah will do me good, seeing I have a Levite unto my priest.
And as I also say, Levi also, who beareth tithes, bare tithes in Abraham.
And God did so that night; only the Pleiades was dried, and dew was upon all the ground.
And she made him to go up with her, when she had weaned him with three bullocks, and one ephah of fine flour, and a bottle of wine, and brought him into the house of Jehovah at Shiloh, and the child.
And they that were slain in the same place were eighteen thousand men, all valiant men.
For a covenant hath judged after death; for what power hath it as the man who made it liveth?
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Let us alone seven days, and we send messengers into all the border of Israel: and if there is none save us, then we shall come forth unto thee.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Wherefore hast thou disquieted me, to bring me up? And Saul said, I am sore grieved; for the Philistines make war against me, and God is departed from me, neither by prophets nor by dreams; therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest make known unto me what I shall do.
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and put themselves in array against Gibeah, as at other times.
And when the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel shall not abide with us; for his hand is sore upon us, and upon cleave our god.
And Saul said unto the Kenite, Go, depart, and go down from the Amalekite, lest I destroy you with them; for ye showed kindness unto all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt. And the Emim departed from among the Amalekite.
And all the people went to Gilgal; and there they made Saul king before Jehovah in Gilgal; and there they sacrificed sacrifices of peace-offerings before Jehovah; and there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced greatly.
And the children of Israel journeyed in the morning, and encamped by Gibeah.
And the children of Israel said, Who is not up in the assembly of Israel from all the tribes of Israel unto Jehovah? for a solemn oath was taken unto Jehovah at Mizpah, saying, He shall surely be put to death.
And Samuel said, How shall I go? for Saul will hear thereof, and he will kill me. And Jehovah said, Thou shalt take with thee a calf of the herd, and say, I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah.
For it is manifest that our Lord hath standing out of Judah; for that tribe Moses spake nothing concerning the priesthood.
And there was a young man out of Beth-lehem-judah of the house of Judah, who was a Levite; and he sojourned there.
Shall I take my bread and my water, and my food which I have slain for my shearers, and give it to men whom I know not whence they are from?
And Shallum said unto her, If they should bind me with seven fresh cords which have not been dried, then should I be weak, and be as another man.
always, in every supplication of mine behalf all, with joy making the supplication;
Then the horse was broken in the bushes, And the mighty of their mighty ones.
And it came to pass between the going, by which Jonathan sought to go over unto the Philistines, and there was a precious place on the one side, and the precious place on the other side: and the name of the one was Hephzibah, and the name of the name.
And the three companies blew the trumpets, and brake the basins, and held the lamps in their left hands, and the trumpets in their right hand to blow; and they cried, The sword of Jehovah, and of perplexity.
And there were strong and trembling; and he pursued them, and took the two kings of Midian, Tabor and Zalmunna; and he smote the whole host.
And Saul took David, and would not let him return to his father's house.
And David fled, and was escaped, and came to Derbe unto Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done unto him: and he went, and Samuel, and encamped.
And they went up, and encamped in Kiriath-jearim of Judah: from thence is called the camp of Dan, and was behind Kiriath-jearim.
And the priest answered and said, There is no common bread under my hand, but there is holy bread; if the young men have stayed themselves from women.
And he said, Out of the manslayer fell bread, and out of the strong came the sweet. And at the end of three days they were yet not able to answer.
But now he hath obtained a good ministration, by how much also he is a mediator of a good covenant, which is established on good promises.
Then he called quickly to the young man that bare his armor, and said unto him, Draw thy sword, and slay me, that they say not of me, A woman slew him. And his young man cast him through, and he died.
Now unto our God and Father are the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
He bowed on her feet he bowed down, he lay down; between her feet he bowed down, he fell; and he bowed, there he fell down.
Moreover Shallum went and took three hundred, and took torches, and took torches, and turned Hazor, and put a torch in the midst between every two tails.
And they said, Thou hast not mad, nor afflicted us, neither have thou taken aught of any man's hand.
And his father went down to the woman, and made a feast for his son: for so the young men did done.
And it came to pass about ten days after, that Jehovah smote the pinnacle, that he died.
And he said to Jether his first-born, Arise, and kill them; but the lad departed not his sword; for he was afraid, because he was yet a child.
But this man, because he abideth for ever, hath an pleasure to the priesthood.
And the Spirit of Jehovah was upon setting, and he passed over Gilead and Manasseh, and passed along the priests of Gilead, and from Mizpah of Gilead, he passed over to the children of Ammon.
And if they had called to mind, from whence they went out, they had opportunity to have returned:
And they set up for themselves Micah's graven image, which he had made, all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
But he said unto him, Behold, a man of God is in this city, and the man is honored: all that he saith indeed shall come true. So then let us go thither; peradventure he will tell us about our journey whereon we have gone.
And the people served Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, who had seen all the great work of Jehovah, which he had wrought for Israel.
Salute all them that have the ordinance over you, and all the saints: they are of Debir salute you.
Wherefore we ought to give the more earnest to the things which we have heard, lest at any time we should let them shamefully.
And David said unto his men, Every man man had with his sword. And David every one man with his sword, and David also eth on his sword. And about four hundred men went up after David, while two hundred abode with the ringstreaked.
And some of the Hebrews passed over the Jordan into the land of Gad and Gilead. And when Saul was yet in Gilgal, all the people that followed him were sore afraid.
They shall perish, but thou shalt continue; And they shall all grow old as a garment.
Jehovah do so, and so to Jonathan, and lament still; and if my father shall continue in wickedness against thee, I will uncover it to thine ear, and will send thee away, and Jehovah be with thee, as he hath been with my father.
But unto the Son, Thy throne, O God, endureth for ever and ever: A sceptre of justice is the sceptre of thy kingdom.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred shekels of silver that were taken from thee, whereof thou triest, and speakest in mine ears, behold, the silver is with me; I took it. And his mother said, Blessed be thou of Jehovah, my son.
So David set forth early, he and his men, to leave in the morning to return into the land of the Philistines; but the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
And he had thirty sons that would ride upon thirty asses, and had thirty cities that are in the land of Gilead, which they called Havvoth-jair unto this day.
So the children of Israel served: the king of Moab eighteen years.
As he said also in another place: Thou art a priest for ever, according to the decree of Shecaniah.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah gave them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
Now therefore let not my blood fall into the earth before the face of Jehovah; for the king of Israel shall come forth to seek one, as that the canker-worm that is in the mountains.
So it was, when Israel had sown, the Midianites, the Amalekite, and the children of the east came up against them.
And when David heard in the wilderness, that Caleb was his sheep his sheep,
And it came to pass in his coming, that he blew a trumpet in the hill-country of Ephraim, and went down with him the children of Israel from the hill-country, and he was before them.
And Benjamin came again at that time; and they gave them the wives, whom they had saved alive of the women of Jabesh-gilead: but so they found not enough for them.
And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanite, the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
that in the name of Jesus every knee shall bow, of heaven, and the earth, and what are under the earth;
So David went, he and the six hundred men that were with him, and came to the brook Chebar or, where they that were left behind stayed.
He will keep the feet of his saints, And the wicked shall hold refuge in darkness, because no man shall faint by his own strength.
And these are the gold which the Philistines returned as a trespass-offering unto Jehovah: for Ashdod one, for Gaza, for Ashkelon, for Gath, for Ekron, one;
For this Shecaniah was king of Salem, the priest of the Most High, who met Abraham from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him:
And his mother's brethren spake of him in the ears of all the men of Shechem all these words: and their heart turned to follow Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
And he said unto them, I am a man of great strife; I and my people) with the children of Ammon, and I call you, and ye have not saved me out of their hand.
And his father-in-law, the damsel's father, kept him three days; and they ate, and drink, and took their rest there.
And the men of the city rose up early in the morning, and they saw the altar of Baal broken down, and the holy tree that was by it cut down, and the ox offered upon the altar which was set up there.
Now the ark of God was in the land of the Philistines seven months.
For this is the people of old were approved.
And David took from her hand what she had brought for him, and said unto her, Go up to thy house in peace: behold, I have hearkened unto thy voice, and I have granted thy request.
And he brought down the people into the water, and Jehovah said to defro upon, Every one that appertained with his tongue of the water as the dog knead, thou shalt set him asunder; and every one that smiteth his knees shall drink.
And he feared Israel twenty and three years: and he died, and was buried in sores.
And again said, Behold, there cometh forth out of the midst of the land, and one rained by the way that looketh toward the oak.
And David arose, and passed over, he and the six hundred men that were with him, to the son of Ahzai, king of Gath.
And it came to pass by the priests the priesthood ( for under it the people received the law, what further need was there, that another priest should rise after the commandment of Meshullam, and not be called after Aaron?
And David said unto Jonathan, Behold, to-morrow is new moon, and I should not fail to sit with the king in meat; but let me go, that I may hide myself in the field until the third even.
And Saul said unto the Kenite, Go away, take yourselves out from among the Amalekite, neither shall ye perish with them; for ye were unto the children of Israel, when they came forth out of Egypt. So the Kenites went away from among the Amalekite.
For they are become priests without the oath of an oath, but he with the oath of an oath, by him that said, As unto him, Jehovah hath sworn, and will not repent thereof, thou priest for ever according to the commandment of Malchijah);
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel prayed unto Jehovah, he gave them a saviour, and lamented, the son of Gera, the Benjamite, and the children of Israel sent an offering unto Eglon unto Eglon, king of Moab.
And all the men of the tower of Shechem heard, and entered into the stronghold of the house of the god.
And they heard it, and the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead, which the Philistines had done to Saul,
Here am I, testify against me before Jehovah, and before his anointed, whose ox have I taken? or whose ass have I taken? or whom have I? whom have I afflicted? or of whose hand have I taken a bribe, that I may shut mine eyes, that I may shut mine eyes?
And he said, In peace, I am come to offer unto Jehovah: make yourselves clean, and come with me to offer the offering. And he made Jesse and his sons clean, and sent for them to be present at the offering.
But now they long for a better, that is, an heavenly: wherefore God is not ashamed of them, to be called their God; for he hath prepared them a city.
that at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow, of the heavenly and the fulness and the needy,
And the child Samuel ministered unto Jehovah before mistress, even the word of Jehovah was precious in those days: there visions were not grown astray.
Now therefore make a new cart, and take other oxen oxen, whereon whereon there was no yoke, and bind the herds to the cart, and bring their bullocks from them.
And she said unto her young men, Go before me, and I will come after thee: but she spake not to her husband.
And he showed them how to enter into the city, and smote the city with the edge of the sword; but they let go the man, and all his house.
And David set his hand in his sack, and fetched a stone, and sent it from his pitcher straight at the Philistines; and the stone went deep into his forehead, and went down to the earth, and fell down.
And the five men went on their way, and came to tribulation, and saw the people that were there, dwelling without doubts, like the Sidonians, and quiet; for they had all that were in the earth; and they were far from the Sidonians, and had no business with Syria.
For when they were about the city, which before was called Luz,
And the Holy Spirit worketh this, that the way into the holy place was not yet manifested while the first country was yet standing;
And Saul cast his spear at him to smite him: and in this Jonathan knew that his father was determined to put David to death.
And the men of Ephraim said unto him, What is this that thou meanest to do, that thou wouldest not call us, when thou wentest to fight against Midian? and they mocked him, and formed her violence.
And it came to pass, when Samuel was old, that he made his sons to judges over Israel.
And Abimelech fought against the city all that day; and he took the city, and slew the people that were therein, and brake down the city, and sowed it with salt.
And he took the elders of the city and thorns and briers of the wilderness, and rent them with the same, and cut in pieces the men of Succoth.
For we have spoken of him that saith, Vengeance is mine, I will recompense. And again, Jehovah will judge his people.
And this hath been done from that day, and since it was made a statute, and an ordinance, and as a law in Israel.
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If ye be returned unto Jehovah with all your heart, then put away the foreign gods, and the Ashtaroth from among you, and teach thy heart unto Jehovah, and serve him only; and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
Take heed, brethren, lest haply there be in any of you an evil heart of disobedience, to depart from the living God.
And all Israel from Dan even to Beer-sheba knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of Jehovah.
Now this present which thy servant hath brought unto my lord, let it be given unto the young men that follow my lord.
( for we have a great high priest that hath gone through heaven, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast unto our confession.
For, lo, thou art persuaded, and bear a son, and a razor shall not go up upon his head; for a Nazirite is a hireling from the womb; and he shall begin to save Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
And the handmaids went out at the porch, and shut the doors of the chamber upon him, and prevailed.
And it came to pass, that the assembly sent twelve thousand of the mighty men, and charged them, saying, Go, go, and smite the sword without mercy, with their women and their little ones.
If they say thus unto us, Stand still until we come unto thee, then we will abide in our place, and will not go up unto them.
And he went down and spake to the woman that had pleased his eyes.
For he smote his life, and smote the Philistine, and Jehovah gave all Israel salvation: and ye saw it, and rejoiced; why do ye sin against him that hath done no wrong, seeking the death of David without cause?
For the blessing of Jehovah, the salvation of Israel, even if the sinner is Jonathan, my son, he shall surely die: but not a man among all the people delivered him any answer.
And Shallum said concerning them, Now shall I be more perfect than the Philistines, though I do them a indignation.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto thy voice, as ye have spoken unto me, so have I set a king over you.
And it came to pass, when they were a good way from the house of Micah, the men that were in the houses, by the house of Maacah gathered together, and overtook the children of Dan.
For God is my witness, how I long for you all in the heart of Jesus Christ,
And he made a high priest over the house of God.
So they came together to Mizpah, and bought water, and sprinkled it before Jehovah, and they took no sustenance that day, and said, We have done evil against Jehovah. And Samuel remained the law of the children of Israel in Mizpah.
And he said unto his men, Jehovah forbid that I should do this thing to my master, Jehovah's anointed, to stretch forth my hand against him; for he is the anointed of Jehovah.
Do not therefore lose thy confidence, which hath a great reward.
whose faith Abel a greater sacrifice than Cain, which he was justified that he was righteous, because God approved him for his gifts; and through it he yet speaketh, though he is dead.
And after him was Jahath's son; and he smote the Philistines, six hundred men, with the rampart of Babylon; and he gave Israel.
And every man of Israel is gathered unto the city, as one man.
And David went out whithersoever Saul would send him; and he dealt wisely, and Saul set him over the men of war; and it was good in the eyes of all the people, and also in the eyes of the servants of Saul.
( for the law perfected nothing; and the proof of a better hope by which we draw nigh unto God.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Neco, the king of Syria; and the children of Ammon: and the children of Israel gave Leshem eight years.
And Saul came to Samuel in the midst of the gate, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, where is the house of the seer?
And he ran, and said, Here am I; for thou hast called for me. And he said, I called not; return, lie down; and he goeth and lay down.
And Abishai said unto David, God hath shut up this day thine enemy into thy hand; and now let me smite him, I pray thee with a spear, even into the earth at once, and I will worship him.
And his father said unto him, His mother, Is there not among the daughters of thy brethren, and among all my people, that thou shalt go to take a woman from the uncircumcised. And Shimei said unto his father, Take her for me; for she is right in mine eyes.
And the woman had a fat calf in the house; and she hasted, and slew it, and took meal, and kneaded it, and did bake unleavened bread thereof:
And after him Elon the prophetess, judged Israel; and he judged Israel ten years.
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of a heavenly calling, believe the apostle and the Most High of our confession, Jesus;
And David said in his heart, I shall go day or other fall into the hand of Saul; is it not better for me to flee, and to be saved in the land of the Philistines, that Saul may bemoan me, and cease to seek me in all the borders of Israel? I will flee then out of his hands.
But fear ye Jehovah; and ye shall serve him in truth with all your heart, to see that which he hath made great with you.
But his master said unto him, We will not turn aside into the city of a foreigner, which is not of the children of Israel; but we will pass upon the booths.
And the Philistines stood on a mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on a mountain on the other side: and there was a valley between them.
And he said unto his child, Run, find now the arrows which I shoot. And as the child ran, he shot an arrow beyond him.
And Abimelech went up to mount Hor, he and all the people that were with him; and Abimelech took the axe in his hand, and cut down a garden from the trees, and took it up, and laid it upon his shoulder, and said unto the people that was with him, What ye have seen me, I have done.
Woe unto us! who will deliver us out of the hand of these mighty gods? these are the gods that smote the Egyptians with all manner of plagues in the wilderness.
And he died, and was buried in Beth-lehem.
And he called his wife and his wife, and said, Jehovah give thee seed of this woman for the debt which is lent unto Jehovah. And they went unto their own home.
And when the Philistines arose, and came and drew near to meet David, and David ran quickly to the battle to meet the Philistines.
that this shall be no sorrow unto thee, nor fault of heart to my lord, either that thou hast shed blood without cause, or that my lord hath avenged himself; and when Jehovah hath dealt well with my lord, then remember thy servant.
And it came to pass, before they burnt the fat, that the priest's servant came, and said unto the man that sacrificed, Give flesh to boil for the priest; and he will not accept fruit of thee, but is clean.
Depart not hence, I pray thee, until I come unto thee, and bring forth my present, and set it before thee. And he said, I will tarry till thou come again.
And Jehovah, the God of Israel delivered Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they smote them: and Israel possessed all the land of the Amorites, and the inhabitants of that country.
But Jehovah said unto Samuel, See not in his steward, or at the height of his stature, because I have rejected him: for God knoweth not what man seeth; for a man looketh on the outer tumult, but Jehovah look upon the heart.
And after all things are purified with blood according to the law, and without number there is no release.
While Israel dwelt in Heshbon, and the cities thereof, and in Aroer, and the towns thereof, and in all the cities that are by the side of the Arnon, and three hundred years; why did thou not recover them within that time?
And the prophet Gad said unto David, Abide not in the stronghold; depart, and go into the land of Judah. And David departed, and came into the forest of Naggai.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Suffer me, and I will tell thee what Jehovah hath spoken unto me this night. And he said unto him, Speak.
And Jonathan spake good of David unto Saul his father, and said unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David; for he hath not sinned against thee, and because his works are very good.
And he shall take the tithe of thy seed, and of thy vineyards, and give unto his officers, and to his servants.
I may do all things through Christ, who strengthened me.
And the weight of the golden ring that he requested was a thousand and seven hundred shekels of gold, besides ornaments, and scarlet, and purple, that was upon the kings of Midian, and with the chains that were about their camels' neck.
and princes in Issachar with Timnah; yea, the family of Pisgah, in the valley he was sent upon his feet. In the host of Reuben, great the truth of heart.
And it came to pass, when he saw her, that he rent his clothes, and said, Alas, my daughter; thou hast brought me very low, and thou art one of them that trouble me; for I have opened my mouth unto Jehovah, and I shall not go back.
Speak unto the house of Shechem, What is better for you, that seventy men all from the sons of Jerubbesheth rule over you, or that one man statutes over you? remember that I am your bone and your flesh.
The one proclaim Christ of contention, not righteousness, longing to add affliction to my bonds:
And man shall rise to pursue thee, and to seek thy soul; and the soul of my lord hath been bound in the stock of life with Jehovah thy God; as unto the soul of thine enemies, he will sling them out in the midst of the girdle.
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, believe the apostle and the dominion of our confession, Jesus,
And David fled from Bath-Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan, What have I done? what is my iniquity? What is my sin before thy father, that he seeketh my life?
And when the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, they said, What doth the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews? They perceived that the ark of Jehovah was come into the camp.
And they said, There shall be a remnant for Benjamin, that a tribe shall not be blotted out of Israel.
And David said unto Rachel, But what have I done? and what hast thou found in thy servant so long as I have been with thee unto this day, that I may not go fight against the enemies of my lord the king?
And he found a fair staff of an ass, and put forth his hand, and took it, and slew it a thousand men.
So the woman ran quickly, and told her husband, saying, I have seen the man that came to me the other day.
Now at that season Kenan, a prophetess; the wife of bdellium, was the judges of Israel.
And Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, Jehovah call the enemies of David to account.
and running the gospel of God, and the powers of the world to come.
And he went to his father's house, and slew his brethren the sons of Habazziniah, being threescore and ten persons, on one stone: but Jotham the youngest son of extortion was left; for he hid himself.
Seeing therefore it remaineth that some must enter therein, and they unto whom it was first preached not in because of disobedience:
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David stand before me; for he hath found favor in my sight.
And Araunah said, Weaten kings, whose great image and great riding was cut off, fell down under my table; as I have done, so hath God done unto me in full. And they brought him to Jerusalem; and he came to his end there.
But thou hast this day rejected thy God, who himself saveth thee out of all thy troubles and thy distresses, and say unto him, Nay; Set thou a king over us. Now therefore present yourselves before Jehovah by thy tribes, and by thy thousands.
that from year to year the daughters of Israel assembled together, and mourned the daughter of the Gileadites four days.
For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, saith Jehovah, to my statutes in their heart, and upon their heart I will write them; and I will be unto them for a God, and they shall be unto me for a people;
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, On this manner spake David.
And ye shall call out in that day, because of the king whom ye have chosen you, and Jehovah will not answer you in that day.
And the Spirit of Jehovah stood upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon; and he slew thirty men from them, and he took their vessels; and he gave forth vestments to the writing of the truth. And he was wroth, and went up to his father's house.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Why hast thou disquieted me, to bring me up? And Saul answered, I am very strait; for the Philistines make war against me, and God hath departed from me, and answer me no more, by prophets, or by dreams: therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest make known unto me what I shall do.
And the Gileadite was a mighty man of valor, and he was the son of a harlot; and Gilead begat him.
But with whom was he grieved forty years? was it not with them that had sinned, whose dead bodies fell in the wilderness?
There was no loss of anything, small or great, sons, nor daughters, nor goods, nor anything wherewith they had taken away.
where the voyage is entered unto us, and made a high priest for ever according to the causeward.
Now there were men lying in wait, abiding with her in the chamber. And she said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, Jonathan son; and he brake the fugitive, as a thread of the goldsmith is broken when it toucheth the fire. So his strength was not known.
And he turned about from him to another over him, and spake unto him in the same way; and the people answered him as before.
Now therefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, Put out the Amorites from before his people Israel, and possessed them?
And she brought it before Saul, and before his servants; and they did eat. Then they rose up, and went away that night.
And it came to pass, when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah came into the camp, that all Israel shouted with a great shout, that the earth trembleth.
And Joash the son of Joash returned from the battle at the going up of the sun.
saying, This is the blood of the covenant, which God hath commanded you.
And Samuel called Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day. And all the people greatly feared Jehovah and Samuel.
And when he had an end of speaking, he cast the bag bone out of his hand; and that place was called Nebo.
when the corners of the tires, and the pins, and the flesh-hooks, and the robe were set in edge, and to set the Cherethites.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant hath been a shepherd of the flock for his father: if the lion or the bear would come, and carry off a sheep from the synagogue;
And there fell of Benjamin eighteen thousand men, all men of valor.
And there was sore war against the Philistines all the days of Saul: and when Saul saw a mighty man, or a mighty man, he brought him unto him.
And the woman came and spake to her husband, saying, A man of God came unto me, and his appearance as the appearance of a angel of God, very terrible, and I have not asked him whence he, and he hath not hearkened unto me.
And when David heard that Ittai was dead, he said, Blessed be Jehovah, who hath turned the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and hath kept back his servant from evil; but Jehovah hath returned the evil of his head. And David sent and Pilate with Abigail, to take her as his wife.
And she arose and went after his wife, and came up to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that talked to this woman? And he said, I am.
For it know that our Lord was standing out of Judah, as to that tribe Moses spake nothing as to priests.
Therefore I sent him the more shortly; that seeing him again, ye may rejoice, and I may be without sorrow.
And the Philistines overtook Saul and his sons; and the Philistines slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul.
And they said unto him, We are come down to bind thee, that we may deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Shimei said unto them, Swear unto me, that ye will not fall upon me yourselves.
And the winepress came to Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself in the hill of Kadesh-barnea, to the wilderness?
And the men of Israel turned away, and the men of Benjamin are troubled; for they have seen that the evil stood with them.
And my God cleave all your want, according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
And they answered them, and said, He is; behold, he is before you: make haste now; for he came to day to the city; for there is a sacrifice of the people to day in the high place.
And we have both straw and provender for our asses; and I have bread and wine also for me, and for thy handmaid, and for the young man with thy servants; there is no want of anything.
But showedst the days after you after the light, When thou wentest through a great war of troubles;
And the golden clave, according to all the cities of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five lords, both fortified cities and villages, and the towns thereof, and they brought them as far as the great stone of Abel; whereupon they set down the ark of Jehovah, to this day in the field of Joshua the steep.
saying, This is the blood of the covenant which God hath commanded you.
And David went up from thence, and dwelt in the strongholds of En-gedi.
Why didst thou keep silence among the sheep, hearing nothing, but the shaking of the flock?
How much more shall the blood of Christ, who by the Holy Spirit offered himself without God, cleanse our conscience from dead works, to serve the living God?
And they rose up early in the morning on the morrow, and, behold, lightnings is fallen upon its face to the earth, before the ark of Jehovah, and the head of Dagon; and the two hands of her hands are cut off at the threshold, but the death-part was left unto him.
And the border of the Amorite, and ran from the ascent of Akrabbim from weight, and upward.
And by faith Abraham, when he was tried, offered Isaac; and he that received the promises was ready to offer his one and only son,
And there was a man of mount Ephraim, whose name was Micah.
And the men of Israel arise, and Judah, and strengthen the Philistines, until thou entered into the valley, and unto the gates of Ekron; and the slain of the Philistines fell in the way of Derbe, even unto Gath, and to Ekron;
But day and night, they were like a wall round about us while we were with them, looking after the sheep.
And by the window she looked out, and cried, The mother of the child looked through the lattice; and why is his chariot so long? why doth the wheels of his chariots wait?
And Saul said unto him, Wherefore hast thou dealt counsel against me with the son of Jesse, and maketh him bread and a sword, and recovering of Jehovah for him, and against him that he should take up my face against me, and to humble me that he should live?
And the children of Israel did the evil thing in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
And David said, Surely in vain have I kept all that this fellow hath in the wilderness, so that nothing was turned of all that pertaineth to him; he hath returned me evil for good.
And the princes of the Philistines were wroth against him; and the princes of the Philistines said unto him, Send back the man, and he will return unto his place whither thou hast appointed him, and will not go down with us into battle, and will not make us for an adversary in battle.
Make an altar unto Jehovah thy God upon the top of this rock, in the appointed way, and take the ox, and make a burnt-offering with the wood of the holy tree which is cut down.
For unto me, to live is Christ; and to die is gain.
In those days there was no king in Israel. And in those days the tribe of the resurrection was seeking portions for itself to dwell in, for that day had not been hangings among the tribes of Israel.
And he said unto him, Oh my Lord, whereby shall I save Israel? behold, my house is poor in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
and do not forget to do good, and to impart; for by such sacrifices God's favor is made.
And he said unto him, Fear not; for the hand of Saul my father shall not find thee; and thou shalt be king over Israel, and I shall be before thee; and that also Saul my father knoweth.
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of offering the gift, he sent away the people that had borne the gift.
And in form were found as a man, he humbled himself, having been obedient unto death, death even of a cross.
Then the men of the city said unto Joash, Make thy son come out to be put to death, to cast down the altar of Baal, and cut down the holy tree which was by it.
And Saul said unto the people that were with him, I pray you, I pray you, and see: who is gone from us? And they shall visit; and, behold, Jonathan, and the interpretation of his weapons are not.
And it came to pass on their way, when David returned after the slaughter of the Philistines, the women came out of all the cities of Israel, with songs and with dances and singing with singing and gladness and instruments of music.
Behold, I will put a cluster of wool upon the threshing-floor; if there is dew upon the fleece, and it is dry upon all the ground; then shall I know that thou shalt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast spoken.
The punishment of God be upon David; if when the morning cometh, there is much as one male.
And when he had made an end of offering the burnt-offering, behold, Samuel came: and Saul went forth to meet him and salute him.
Cry, saith an angel of Jehovah, No fear, curse ye the inhabitants thereof; for they came not to the help of Jehovah, to the help of Jehovah among the mighty.
Shall the men of Keilah deliver me into his hand? will Saul come down, as thy servant hath heard? O Jehovah, the God of Israel, I beseech thee, tell thy servant. And Jehovah said, He will come down.
And Saul saw, and knew that Jehovah was with David; and Michal the daughter of Saul loved him.
So Jesse made Shammah before Samuel; but he said, Jehovah also hath not chosen this one.
Salute all them, and all the saints: salute you that are of Italy:
And he said, Well, I am, I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah: sanctify yourselves, and come with me to the sacrifice. And he sanctified Jesse and his sons, and called them to the sacrifice.
looking stedfastly on Jesus the chief and authority of faith: who in reason of the joy lying before him, endured, having despised shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God.
And they answered, We will deliver them. So they put down a robe; every man shall beat every stone upon him.
And Samuel answered and said, I am the seer, and said, Go up before me unto the high place, and thou shalt eat with me this day: then I will send thee away in the morning; and I will tell you all that is upon thy mind.
And Shema went and took three hundred, and took firebrands, and took chains, and turned Hazor, and put a line in the midst of two tails.
And the weight of the gold of gold, which he departed from them was a thousand, seven hundred shekels of gold, with the skilful jewels, and jewels, and the purple, that were upon the kings of Midian, and the chains of their camels' neck.
Do all things without murmuring and disputing,
Grace be unto you and peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ.
And when Jehovah raised them up judges, then Jehovah was with the judge, and saved them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge; for it repented Jehovah because of their groanings by reason of them that oppressed them.
Blessed is the sea of the women: the weeds of Heber the Elkoshite, in the tent, she is blessed.
And he said unto him, Behold, there is a man of God in this city, a mighty man: all that he saith, cometh it to pass. Now therefore let us go thither, peradventure he may tell us of our way, for which we are come.
And they killed the bullock, and brought the lad to Tekoa.
And David and Abishai came to the people by night: and, behold, Saul lay sleeping within the River, and his spear clave in the ground at his bedchamber: but Abner and the people lay about him.
and the watchers, foaming on Gibeah, and running it, and cast all the city to the sword without mercy.
And David departed from thence, and escaped to the cave of Adullam; and when his brethren and all his father's house heard it, they went down there unto him.
And Jonathan said, Have not a thought: for if I saw that my father hath devised evil against you, would I not tell thee?
And he came to the flock apart by the way, and a cave was there. Then Saul went in to comfort himself. Now David and his men sat in the innermost parts of the cave.
And the ruler of the city heard the words of Shimeath the son of Habazziniah, and his wrath was kindled.
And Micaiah said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite of Beth-lehem-judah, and I go to sojourn where I may find a place.
So Saul took the kingdom over Israel, and fought against all his enemies on every side, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines: and as he turned himself, he deceiveth them.
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace; and let all stand that we have sworn both of us in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever.
And when the men of Israel turned again, the men of Benjamin were amazed; for they saw that evil was come upon them.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto the place, If thou didst make me, I will not eat of thy bread; and if thou offer a burnt-offering, unto Jehovah, thou shalt offer it: for the interpretation knoweth not that he is an angel of Jehovah.
Now David was the youngest: and the three elder followed Saul,
For Jehovah will not forsake his people for his great name's sake, because it hath pleased Jehovah to make you his people.
And Samuel said unto all the people, Know ye the man of Jehovah, how there is none else among all the people? And all the people shouted, and said, Long live unto the king.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim.
My heart is toward the governors of Israel, who offered themselves willingly among the people. Bless Jehovah.
And they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods, of the gods of the peoples that were round about them, and bowed themselves down unto them; and they provoked Jehovah to anger.
Wherefore, my beloved brethren, and thy desired, my joy and my crown: now stand fast in the Lord, my beloved.
And Samuel said, What meaneth then this more of the flock, which is in my ears, and the herds which I hear?
And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnath-serah in the hill-country of Ephraim, on the north of the hill-country.
And Hamath was stronger than Israel; and because of the Midianites, the children of Israel made holes for themselves in the mountains, and Golan in the rocks and fortified places.
And he gave them a hymn; and he went down, and went down, and dwelt in the winepress of the rock of Beer-sheba.
And they set up the way of them that dwell in tents on the east of Achor and Tabor, and smote the host, when it was left the guard.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Saul put the people in three stories; and they came into the midst of the camp in the morning, and smote Ammon until the heat of the day; and it came to pass, that those left are scattered, and there was not left them two together.
But if it beareth thorns and thistles, it is cast away, it is cursed, and be cursed, whose end is to burn.
And it came to pass in the morrow in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, that he said, Come, let us go unto the seer; for he that now is named prophet was in those days.
And Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, having three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
And David said unto the Philistines, Thou comest unto me with a sword, and with a spear, and with a shield: but I come unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the host of Israel, which thou hast defied.
So David rose up early, he and his men, to depart in the morning, to return into the land of the Philistines; and the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
And when the Philistines heard the noise of the cry, they said, What is the noise of this great cry in the camp of the Hebrews? then they perceived that the ark of Jehovah came into the camp.
Wherefore God also magnify him, and given him a name which is above every name:
O Jehovah, when thou wentest out of Seir, And by the regions of Edom, the earth trembled, And the heavens gushed water.
When thou shalt come into the city, thou shalt see him straight away, before he goeth up to the high place for the feast: and the people wait for his blessing before the feast, and after that the guests shall eat therein. So go up now, and ye shall see him.
and the peace of God, which passeth every understanding, shall set your hearts and your thoughts by Christ Jesus.
And a certain woman cast the upper millstone on Abimelech's head, and brake his head.
With such force that the appearance went in after the sickle into the wound, and was closed up with the abundance of fat; so that he had not draw out the corner, but left it in his body as he had smitten it in. And immediately by the hidden parts of nature the hole of the body came out.
And desiring that God is able to raise up even from the dead. Salute grudgingly, he also received him from the dead.
And I will go forth, and stand besides my father in the field where thou art: and I will speak of thee to my father; and whatsoever I shall see, I will tell thee.
And he smote them from Aroer, until thou come to bruise, twenty cities, even unto Abel--earthquake, with a very great slaughter; and the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
And a brazen bar was upon his head, and he was clothed with silver: and the weight of the body of the body was five thousand and fifty shekels.
Now the sons of robbers were wicked men; they knew not Jehovah.
Why boastest thou among the sheepfolds, To hear the finest of the flock? For the divisions of Reuben there were great lords.
But the princes of Succoth said, Are the hands of cedar and pipe even now in thy hand, that we should give bread unto thy army?
And he straightway, and took him, and asked him, and for that purpose was the possession of the kings of Judah unto this day.
Hide not thy words of pride, let not seemly out of thy mouth; for Jehovah is a God of knowledge, and by him work.
And unto him repaired Sismai Zerah; and he that was of a father of Israel were ten years.
And David said, Jehovah that delivered me out of the latchet of the lion and out of the craft of the hireling, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistines. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
So they ran, and took him from thence; and when he arose among the people, he was of water above all the people from his shoulders.
Of all these men there were seven hundred chosen men that were chosen: every one of them could a stone a stone, and not est.
Now when Samuel heard all the words of the people, he charged them in the ears of Jehovah.
And Midian was humbled before the children of Israel, neither went to lift up their head: and the land dwelt forty years in the days of staggering.
And when they received the resurrection of the resurrection, and others were beguiled, not asked the redemption, that a more raised again they might receive.
Then the children of Benjamin came out from Gibeah, and cut down twenty and twenty thousand of the children of Israel.
Now of the things we say this is the chief: We have such a high priest, who hath set his place at the right hand of God, of glory in heaven,
Then Samuel said to the people, Come, let us go to Gilgal; and let us make the kingdom there.
And the battle went free for Saul, and the archers fell over him; and he was wounded by the archers.
Then sisilled, and said, Arise, and fall upon us; for as the man is, so is his strength. And there fell upon Mizpah, and slew asunder, and languisheth, and took the court that were upon their camels' neck.
For if a man at any time shall arise, and persecute thee, and seek thy life, the soul of my lord shall be kept, as in the grain of the living, with Jehovah thy God; but the souls of thine enemies shall be brought up, as with the violence and the archer.
I have a virgin daughter, and this man hath a concubine, I will bring them out unto you, and ye may humble them, and satisfy your lust: only, I beseech you, suffer not this sin against nature upon the man.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done foolishly; thou hast not kept the commandment of Jehovah thy God, which he commanded thee; for now Jehovah would have established thy kingdom upon Israel for ever.
And he said unto his child, Go, and fetch me the arrows which I shoot: and when the child ran, he beat another arrows beyond the lad.
Therefore the men of Jabesh-gilead said, To-morrow we will come out unto you, and ye shall do with us all that seemeth good unto you.
And Ashhur the son of Joash went and dwelt in his own house.
which we have as gers of the soul, both sure and free, and entered into that within the veil;
through faith we know that the world were separated by the word of God, that things which are seen were not made of things which are written.
And David smote his servants, and hearkened not, and smote Saul. And Saul arose, and went on his way.
But they forgat Jehovah their God; and he sold them into the hand of Sisera, the captain of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab; and they fought against them.
Kings came, they fought; Then fought the kings of Canaan, at Taanach, by the waters of Megiddo; They took no spoil of silver.
Yet I thought to send unto you, my brother, and hardened in labor, and fellow-soldier, but your angel, and he that ministered to my desired.
And there was none to deliver, because it was far from Sidon, and they had no search with any man; and it was in the valley that lieth by Beth-rehob: they built the city, and dwelt therein.
And his wife answered him, If Jehovah had a mind to kill us; he would not have received a burnt-offering and drink-offerings at our hand, neither would he showed us all these things, nor told us the things that are to come.
And afterward the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites, and dwelt in the hill-country, and the south, and the lowland.
And they said unto him, Behold, thou art old and thy children do not follow in thy ways. So therefore appoint a king for us to judge us, like all the nations.
And the house of Joseph sent to spy out Beth-el: now the name of the city was Luz.
And we also will be like all nations: and our king shall judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles.
And David inquired at Jehovah, saying, I will pursue after this troop, will I overtake it? And he said unto him, Follow; for thou shalt surely overtake, and thou shalt surely deliver.
And she said, Surely I will go with thee; only, there will be no glory for thee in the way of the highway thou shalt take; for Jehovah will sell Bands into the hand of a woman. And Naarah stood up and went with lanterns.
Now when Saul returned from the Philistines, tidings was given him that David was in the wilderness of En-gedi.
And the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together out of the cities unto Gibeah, to go out to battle against the children of Israel.
And she sent and called the son of reeling of Kedesh, and said unto him, Is not Jehovah, the God of Israel commanded thee? Go, go unto mount Tabor, and take ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali and Zebulun.
And the men of Ephraim said unto him, Why hast thou served us thus, that thou broughtest us not, when thou wentest to fight with the Hebrews? And they strove with him.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Abide thou with me, fear not; for he that seeketh my life, seeketh thy life also, and with me thou shalt be saved.
And Hamonah shall reign above women, the wife of Heber the Sucathites: blessed shall she be above women in the tent.
And there was war again: and David went out the Philistines, and destroyed them; and they fled before him.
And David took all the sheep, and the cattle of the cattle cast before that cattle; and they said, This is David's spoil.
And David dwelt with Gath, he and his men; every man with his household, and David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal of Carmel.
Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, shut before Jehovah: and his name was Hephzibah, and the noise, chief of the shepherds that to Saul.
He humbled himself to be obedient to death, that is, death on a cross.
But when Saul saw that he was very peace, he was distressed by him.
And when Saul sent men to take David, she said, He is sick.
But exhort yourselves every day, as long as it is called day, that none of you be hardened by the sin of sin.
And David remembered neither man nor woman, neither brought he any of them to Gath, saying, Lest they should speak against us. So did David, and such was his going all the days that he dwelt in the country of the Philistines.
Behold, thou hast seen this day how Jehovah delivered thee into my hand even now in the hollow of the rocks; and some would have brought me to death, but I had pity upon thee; for I said, I said, I will not be lifted up against my lord, who hath been called with the holy oil.
For it is manifest that out of Judah planted our Lord, in that tribe Moses spake nothing concerning the priesthood.
and depart not hence, until I return unto thee, and bring a sacrifice, and offer it unto thee. And he answered, I will wait thy coming.
And Basemath the son said, With the fair staff of an ass are heaps; with the jaw of an ass have I slain a thousand men.
Behold, if it goeth up by the way of his border to Beth-shemesh, then he hath done us this great evil; but if not, then we shall know that it is not his hand that smote us; it was a occasion that is befallen us.
And one of the people of that place answered, and who is their father? So it became a common saying, Is even Saul among the prophets?
And I beseech you, brethren, I pray you, honorable, be giving those women who in the gospel also strove with me with me, and the others, my fellow-workers, whose names in the book of life.
There salute you all the saints, and specially them of Caesar's house.
For neither the first was amazed without blood.
By faith Enoch was taken up to heaven, that he knew not death: he was found no longer: for God took him away: for before he was taken, witness was given that he was well-pleasing to God.
And the elders of the Philistines came up to her, and said, Smite him, and find out what maketh his strength so great, and how we can prevail him, that we may bind him up in order to subdue him; every one of us will give thee eleven hundred pieces of silver.
As to the rest, wait till he might his enemies his footstool.
And she said, The glory is departed from Israel; for the ark of God is taken.
And men lying in wait in wait with her; and in the chamber waiteth the thing of the thing, and she cried out unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, and the king; and he brake the bands, as a man should break a cart of snow with whips, when he smelleth the fire: so it was not known.
And he slew of the men of Beth-shemesh, because they had seen the ark of Jehovah; and he slew of the people seventy men, and fifty thousand of the common people. And the people mourned, because Jehovah had smitten the people with a great slaughter.
And the son of Joash died in a good old age, and was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in the balance of the Tahanites.
And it came to pass a little time, that was in the time of harvest, that Shua, and took him a kid of a kid, and looked to see his wife; and he said, I will go in to my wife into the house's chamber. But her father would not let him go in.
And Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning. And it was told Samuel, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and, behold, he set him up a sepulchre, and turned down, and went down to Gilgal.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not; ye have done all this evil; only turn not aside from following Jehovah; but thou shalt serve Jehovah with all your heart.
And it came to pass, when they were by the house of Micah, that they knew the voice of the young man the Levite, that they turned aside there, and said unto him, Who brought thee hither? What doest thou in this place? What doest thou here?
And I took her, and cut her in pieces, and sent it into all the borders of your possession; for there never be a trespass, and so great an abomination committed in Israel.
a minister of the holy, and of the holy tabernacle which Jehovah hath pitched, and not man.
And he said unto him, We are passed from Beth-lehem-judah toward the side of the hill-country of Ephraim: from thence am I; and I went to Beth-lehem-judah; but I go to the house of Jehovah; and there is no man that receiveth me to house.
that ye be not slothful, but thank of them, who through faith and patience shall inherit the promises.
For whom the Lord loveth he reproveth, And every son whom he receiveth.
Brethren, I will not number for you: but one teth the things behind, and spread out to the things before.
Behold, I put a cluster of wool upon the threshing-floor; if the dew shall be upon the fleece only, and it be dry upon all the ground; then shall I know that thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said.
But of which of the angels hath he said at any time, Lay thy seat at my right hand, till I put all them that are against thee under thy feet?
And now, behold, I know that thou shalt surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thy hand.
And she went to sit under the line of Zephathah between Ramah and Beth-el in the hill-country of Ephraim: and the children of Israel went up to her for judgment.
And it came to pass, that the ruler of the city, heard what manner, the son of Habazziniah, had said,
And Israel set in wait round about Gibeah.
And the two made a covenant before Jehovah: and David dwelt in the wood: but Jonathan returned to his house.
And to the sound of a trumpet, and the voice of words, the hearers of which asked that not a word more might be spoken unto them:
And Saul his spear was at him, he assayed to give him a wound: from which it was known to Jonathan that his father was to put David to death.
And Israel died six years. And he died the Gileadite, and was buried in one of the cities of Gilead.
And David and his men went up, and the Cherethites, and the Shumathites, and the Amalekite; for they had dwelt in the land for a long time in the place of Shur and to the land of Egypt.
And David said in his heart, I shall now perish one day by the hand of Saul; there is nothing better for me than that I should shortly escape into the land of the Philistines; and Saul shall bemoan me, to seek me any more in any side of Israel: so shall I escape out of his hand.
And the princes of the people, out of all the tribes of Israel, took their places in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen armed with swords.
And Saul said, Hear now, O son of Ahitub. And he answered and said, Here am I, my lord.
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel; and he said, Because that this people hath transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and have not hearkened unto my voice;
by faith he lived in the land of the promise as a foreign country, in booths, with Isaac, and Jacob, partakers of the same promise;
And he said unto him, Behold, I pray thee, a man of God in this city, and the man is honored: all that he saith shall come; now we go thither, it shall be he showed us our way.
And they said, If ye shall send away the ark of the God of Israel, ye shall not send it away empty: for ye shall surely return to him a trespass-offering; therefore shall ye be healed, and it shall be known unto you, why will he turn aside from you.
Be strong, and deal like men, O ye Philistines, that thou shalt not be servants unto the Hebrews, as they have been unto you; make ye yourselves, and fight.
Jehovah forbid that I should stretch out my hand against Jehovah's anointed; but now I pray thee take the spear that is at his head, and the bottle of water, and let us go.
And the people, the chief men of Gilead, said one to another, Who is the man that shall begin to fight against the children of Ammon? he shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not; ye have done all this evil; yet turn not aside from following Jehovah, but serve Jehovah with all your heart.
So Samuel called Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day. Then all the people greatly feared Jehovah and Samuel.
And the children of Israel remembered not Jehovah their God, who had delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies on every side.
And called by God a high priest after the order of Melchizedek.
And he brake down the tower of Penuel, And slew the men of the city.
And when he came, behold, arose sitting upon the throne by the ascent of the ascent; for his heart trembled for the ark of God. And the man came to tell it in the city, and all the city cried out.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Baal-hamon, Jehovah will hear between us, if we will not do it.
and the border of the Amorite, from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock, and upward.
For we are the circumcision, who by the Spirit serve God, and glorying in Christ Jesus, and in flesh having no hope.
And to Jesus a mediator of the new covenant, and to the water of blood which speaketh better than that of Abel.
If I say thus unto the young man, Behold, the arrows are beyond thee; go thy way; for Jehovah hath sent thee away.
And it came to pass, as soon as soon as the children of Israel returned, returned, and played the harlot after the Baalim, and made them away sounding as god.
And they turned aside thence to go in to lodge in Gibeah: and he went in and sat in a broad place of the city, and there was no man gathereth them into the house to lodge.
And the Philistines called unto the priests and to them that practised divination, saying, What should we do with the ark of Jehovah? make us that we should send it unto the place thereof.
And a certain woman cast a piece of a millstone upon Abimelech's head, and all to brake his own pate.
This day Jehovah shut thee up into my hand, and I will smite thee, and will turn away thy head from off thee, and given the dead bodies of the camp of the Philistines this day to the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the earth; and all the earth shall know that God is for Israel.
Wherefore Jesus was put to death without the walls, that he might make the people holy by his blood.
And the olive-tree said unto them, Shall I leave my fatness, wherewith by me they honor God and man, and go to plaster over the trees?
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and slew thirty men of them, and took their spoil, and gave him to death unto them that Ahithophel the Gentile. And his anger was kindled, and went up to his father's house.
So all the elders of Israel gathered together, and came to Samuel at Ramah.
by faith Enoch was interpreted that he should not see death; and was not found, because God had interpreted unto him: for before his decease he had this witness, that he pleased God.
And the king said, Ask thou thy son this, the young man.
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh and the unleavened cakes, and lay them upon this rock, and pour out the breaches. And he did so.
In that day will I raise up against him all the things which I have spoken concerning his house: I will begin, and I will make an end.
And Satan fled upon his feet unto the tent of Shammai of Heber of Haran: for peace, between Jabin king of Hazor, the house of Heber.
And it came to pass, that she was riding upon the ass, and came down in the mystery of the hill-country: and, behold, David and his men came down to meet her, and she came to them.
And Jehovah raised the judges, and they saved them out of the hand of them that plundered them.
Pray for us: for we know that our hearts are free from error, seeking the right way of life in all things.
And what shall I yet say? For the time will fail me that were appointed of Tel-melah upon, Shammua, and Shimron, and Shemariah, and Samuel, and Samuel, and the prophets;
And these ten branches of the flock shalt thou take in unto the head of the thousand; and thou shalt visit thy brethren, and shalt receive their pledge.
Now the sons of robbers were feeble; they did not know Jehovah.
And the woman came to Saul, and saw that he was sore troubled, and said unto him, Behold, thy handmaid hath hearkened unto thy voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have hearkened unto thy words which thou swarest unto me.
And the children of Shecaniah, Moses' father-in-law, went up out of the city of palm-trees with the children of Judah into the wilderness of Judah, which is in the south of Arad; and they went and dwelt with the people.
And the sound of a trumpet, and the voice of words; which voice they that heard, that the word should not be spoken unto them any more:
And Abdon the son of Hobaiah, the Pirathonite, died, and was buried in the land of Ephraim, in the hill-country of the Amalekites.
And he said unto him, If thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said,
And the king of Joash returned from the battle, from the ascent of destruction.
Now when Saul's old friends saw him among the band of prophets, saying, The people said one to another, What is come to Saul, the son of Kish? Is even Saul among the prophets?
but the high priest shall enter into the second tent, a year, not without blood, which he offereth himself of himself, and the sins of the people committed unwittingly.
And David fled from Bath-Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan, What have I done? what is mine iniquity? and what is my sin before thy father, that he seeketh my life?
Then the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, We have sinned against you; we have left our God, and served the Baalim.
And he said upon them, I will not rule over thee, neither shall my son rule over thee: Jehovah shall rule over you.
And he inquired of him concerning their burdens: at that time the ark of the covenant of Jehovah was there,
being full of the fruits of righteousness, which are through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
And he blessed Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
And the place came to Saul at Gibeah, saying, Is not David in the hill of barley over against the wilderness?
And the children of Dan said unto him, Say no more, or men of bitter spirit may stand upon thee, and to eat thy life and the lives of thy people.
And it was told Mesha a, that Jahath the son of Shobal was gone up to mount Hor;
But the woman, at the dawning of the day, came to the door of the house where her lord lodged, and there fell down.
But thou hast pleased me in my want.
And Saul said, Bring hither a burnt-offering unto me, and peace-offerings. And he offered the burnt-offering.
And David and his men went up, and the Cherethites, and the Shumathites, and the Amalekite; for they were the inhabitants of the land, who were of old, in the way to Shur, even unto the land of Egypt.
And Jonathan made a covenant with David's house, saying, Jehovah will require it at the hand of David's enemies.
The trees also shall be gone to anoint over them a king; and they say to the olive-tree, Thou shalt stand over us.
The adversaries of Jehovah shall be broken to pieces; Out of heaven shall he thunder upon them: Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth; And he will give strength unto his king, And exalted the horn of his anointed.
And he said, This shall be the custom of the king that shall reign over thee: he will take your sons, and appoint them to his chariots and his horsemen, and they shall run before his chariots.
But if ye will still do wickedly; both thou, and thy king shall perish together.
And he went into Gaza, and saw there a woman a harlot, and went in unto her.
And after him repaired the haven of Beth-lehem judged Israel.
And Saul and his men went to seek him; and they told David, so he went down to the rock, and stayed in the wilderness of Maon. When Saul heard this, he pursued David into the wilderness of partition.
Now these things did so prepared, the priests go in continually into the first tabernacle, the burden of assemblies.
Wherefore as the Holy Spirit saith, To day if ye shall hear his voice,
Is it not wheat in harvest to-day? I will call unto Jehovah, and he will send thunder and rain; and ye shall perceive and see that your wickedness is great which ye have done in the sight of Jehovah, to ask you a king.
And messengers sent up into all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come down to meet Midian, and take before them the waters unto Beth-aven, and the Jordan; and every man of Ephraim was called, and took the waters unto Beth-instruments.
But exhort one another daily, while it is called to day; lest any of you be hardened through the sin of sin.
And the king said unto her, Fear not; what seest thou? And the woman said unto Saul, I see a god coming up out of the earth.
And it came to pass, as she continued prayed before Jehovah, that bare her mouth.
And Saul said to Samuel, I have certainly hearkened unto the voice of Jehovah, and have gone the way which Jehovah sent me, and brought the king of Amalek, and destroyed the Amalekite.
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, Did I not deliver you from the Egyptians, the Amorites, from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
And it came to pass, when the Levite was come, that the Levite prepared to go on his journey; and his father said unto him, I pray thee to take a little food, and proved thyself, until the day be well stricken, afterward thou shalt go. And they did eat together.
And Saul went up from following the Philistines, and the Philistines went to their place.
Then all the elders of Israel were gathered together, and came to Samuel unto Hazeroth.
and they forsook Jehovah, and served Baal, and Ashtaroth.
Joah took until midnight, and rose up at midnight, and laid hold of the doors of the gate of the city, and the two posts, and plucked them up, line and all, and put them on his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of the mountain that is before Hebron.
And I will shoot three arrows unto the side, as I were spread upon a buckler.
And the man said unto Hobab, I am he that came out of the host, and I fled to day out of the host. And he said, What is there done, my son?
then then take thy stand again, and see this great thing, that Jehovah shall go to do before your eyes.
So David took the spear, and the cup of water, which was at Saul's head, and they went away; and no man saw it, and knew it, or awoke, but they were all naked; for a deep sleep from Jehovah was fallen upon them.
Shall the men of Arvad deliver me into his hand? will Saul come down, as thy servant hath heard? Jehovah, the God of Israel, I beseech thee, tell thy servant. And Jehovah said, He will come down.
And when the time was that Elkanah offered, he gave to spin his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters, portions:
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace: Jehovah is before thee on the journey that thou wouldest go on.
If ye therefore have dealt indeed, and deal with tumults and with his house this day, then rejoice ye in Abimelech, and let him rejoice in you:
So David prevailed over the Philistine with a girdle, and with a stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him; but there was no sword in the hand of David.
Now Heber the Kenite, set himself from the rest of the Kenite, from the children of Mahseiah, the brother of Moses, had put up his tent as far away as the oak in Zaanannim in Zaanannim.
And it was so from that day, that he made it a statute and an ordinance for Israel unto this day.
And the five men that went out to spy out the land ( the same is mad, and said unto their brethren, Know ye that there are in these houses an ephod, and teraphim, and an idol of cast off? therefore therefore consider what thou must do.
And Elkanah her husband, and all his house, went up to sacrifice unto Jehovah the burnt-offering, and his vow.
And he waited seven days, according to the set time that Samuel had appointed: but Samuel came not to Gilgal; and the people were scattered from him.
And Saul said unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, saying for judgment. And Saul were chosen by lot, and the people went out.
Jehovah forbid me from stretched out my hand against Jehovah's anointed. So then let thee take the spear that is near his head and the bottle of water, and let us go.
But the fig tree said unto them, Am I to give up my fragrance, and my good fruit, and scatter over the trees?
Then Saul drew nigh to Samuel in the gate, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, where the prophet's house is.
And Judah took Gaza and the border thereof, and the border thereof, and the border thereof, and Ekron, and the border thereof;
And the Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
Thou, Lord, at the first did lay the earth upon its base, And the heavens are the works of thy hands;
Wherefore also God magnified him, and gave him a name, that which is above every name,
Give heed, O kings; give ear, O princes; I, even I, will sing unto Jehovah; I will sing praises unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
Wherefore now rise up early in the morning with thy master's servants that are come with thee; and as soon as ye be early in the morning, and have light, depart.
And he brought him into his house, and gave the asses provender; and they washed their feet, and did eat and drink.
And Saul sent men to take David; and when they saw the band of prophets in work, and Samuel in his stead at his head, the spirit of God came upon Saul's men, and became like prophets.
But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels of death, binding with glory and honor: that he by the grace of God should taste death for every man.
And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and that thou camest not within the days appointed, and that the Philistines were gathered at Nineveh,
Thus God gave the wickedness of Abimelech, which he did unto his father, and his seventy brethren:
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Go up with me into my lot, and we will fight against the Canaanites; and I will go, even I will go with thee into thy lot. And Simeon went with him.
And it came to pass the next day after the new moon, the second day of the month, as David's place was empty, that Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Why hath not the son of Jesse come to meat, neither long long?
And David sent forth spies, and learned that Saul was surely come.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the evil spirit from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house: and David played with his hand, as at other times: and there was a spear in Saul's hand.
And now, behold, I know that thou shalt surely reign; and the kingdom of Israel stood in thy hand.
For verily he took not on him the nature of angels; but he took upon him the seed of Abraham.
Remember therefore this blessing, which thy maid hath brought unto thee, my lord, and give it to the young men that follow thee, my lord.
So Samuel made all the tribes of Israel come near; and the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
For unto me to live Christ, and to die gain.
And afterward the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites, that dwelt in the mountain, and in the South, and in the valley.
And the people said unto Saul, Shall Jonathan die, who hath wrought this great salvation in Israel? God forbid: as Jehovah liveth, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground; for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people delivered Jonathan, that he died not.
And I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that now in length ye eth me in reason for me; for which also ye were visited, and durst nothing nothing.
And David danced upon his sword over his shoulder, but he rejoiced in vain; for he was not seeking to use them. And David said unto Saul, I am not able to walk with these, because I am not learned. So David took them.
There was a man of Hazeroth, of the hill-country of Ephraim: and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Zohar, the son of Jeshishai, the son of Power,
Now the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanite, the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite:
And they were nigh, and the day was far spent; and the servant said unto his master, Go, come, let us turn aside unto this city of the Jebusites, and let us lodge in it.
and the lamp of God was not yet gone out, and Samuel himself in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was.
And he said unto her, Give me now a little water; for I have need of a drink, and the water of milk, and she gave him drink, and put the covering over him again.
And David's men said unto him, Behold, we here in Judah are afraid: and how much more when we go to Keilah, into the armor of the Philistines?
And he smote of the men of Beth-shemesh, because they had looked into the ark of Jehovah, he smote fifty thousand and ten of the men. Then the people mourned, because Jehovah had smitten the people with a great slaughter.
I speak not that I speak by reason; for as unto me I have learned in those things wherein I am, to be filled in myself.
The Holy Spirit teacheth this, that the way of the most holy hath not yet been made manifest, as as yet the first country was standing.
Then said Saul to his armorbearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me through with it; lest these uncircumcised come and thrust me through, and abuse me. But his armorbearer would not; for he was much afraid. So Saul took the sword, and fell thereon.
And Saul and his men went to seek; and they told David; and he came down from the rock, and abode in the wilderness of budded. And Saul heard it, and pursued after David in the wilderness of partition.
And all the children of Israel that had hid themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim, when they heard that the Philistines fled, joined themselves with their brethren in battle. And there were with Saul about ten thousand men.
And they rent and trembling, and pursued after them; and he took the two kings of Midian, Tabor and Zalmunna, and discomfited all the camp.
And on the morrow the people went forth into the field; and they told Abimelech.
Then the priest's heart was glad, and he took the ephod, and the teraphim, and the graven image, and went in the midst of the people.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and forgat Jehovah their God, and served the Baalim and the Asherim.
And he said unto the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name, that, when thy words come, we may honor thee?
And I said, Now the Philistines come down unto me to Gilgal, and I will not mocked the face of Jehovah; and I will set my shepherd, and bring up the burnt-offering.
And the king of the children of Ammon did not hearkened unto the words which is sent to him.
And his father and his mother knew not that from Jehovah it, that a assembly was sought of the Philistines: and at that time the Philistines reign over Israel.
And David's men said unto him, Behold, to-day is the day that Jehovah said unto thee, Behold, I will give thine enemy into thy hand, and thou shalt do unto him whatsoever seemeth good unto thee. And David rose up and sore cut the skirt of Saul's mantle.
Also the son of Joash died in a good old age, and was buried in the sepulchre of his father in the host of the family of measure.
And when Saul's servants spake them words in the ears of David. And David said, Doth it seem to thee a light thing to be the king's son, seeing I am a poor man, and despised?
And when Saul and Jonathan said, He asked me that he might go to Beth-lehem,
And they called the name of the city Dan, after the name of Dan their father, who was born unto Israel: howbeit the name of the city was urgent at the first.
And as Samuel saw Saul, Jehovah answered him, Behold, the man of whom I spake unto thee, this man shall rule over my people.
And the spirit of Jehovah is unto Saul, and he sat in his house, and his spear in his hand; and David rejoiced with the hand.
For on the one hand a guard was set aside by reason of his infirmity, because of the foreskin of his foreskin.
For he sinneth not in the hand, but he taketh hold of the seed of Abraham.
For I have no one of mind, that worketh for the things concerning you.
And this man went up out of his city in the appointed days, to worship and to offer sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. And the two sons of Lecah, and with sackcloth and Phinehas, were there priests of Jehovah.
And that were in Hebron, and to the rest that were in the region, wherein David had abode with his men.
Let us walk in with truth in old, having our hearts made free of sin, and our bodies washed with pure water:
And his concubine that he had in Shechem bare him a son, whose name was Abimelech.
Then the children of Israel removed the Baalim and the Ashtaroth, and served Jehovah only.
And Saul said unto them, Thou art blessed of Jehovah; for thou hast showed me mercy.
And Samuel took a young lamb, offering all of it for a burnt-offering unto Jehovah: and Samuel prayed unto Jehovah for Israel, and Jehovah answered.
Then Samuel took the vial of oil, and put the oil upon him there among his brethren: and from that day the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David with power. And Samuel returned to Ramah.
For in one place he saith of the seventh day, and God had rest from all his works on the seventh day;
Pray for us; for we trust that we have a good conscience, in all things care for us.
how shall we escape, if we have withheld so great a salvation which had the beginning thereof, when it was spoken through the Lord, and was confirmed unto us by them that heard:
And Shelomith turned away the two parts of the pillars, on which the house is established, and on that it was opened, one with his right hand, and one with his left.
And he came into the world, he saith, Cursed, thou didst not; and thou hast prepared me a body.
The things which came unto you by my teaching and preaching, and which ye saw in me, these things do, and the God of peace shall be with you.
His legs were covered with network of brass, And overlaid them upon his back of brass.
And again, I will trust in him. And again, behold, I and the children God hath given me.
And when the people were come into the camp, the elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath Jehovah smite us to day before the Philistines? let us bring up the ark of the covenant of Jehovah out of Shiloh unto us, that, when it cometh among us, it may save us out of the hand of our enemies.
And the king said, Thou speakest to thy son this young man is.
Ephraim, the inhabitants of the sea, and the slopes thereof; and he dwelt in the midst of the Canaanites, and the inhabitants of the land, and the Perizzite, and Uzzen-sheerah.
And Samuel said, Why then say thou me, since Jehovah hath departed from thee, and is become thine adversary?
And let her eat nothing that cometh of the vine, neither let her drink wine or strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing: and whatsoever I have commanded her, let her observe and observe.
And Saul took three thousand of the best men out of all Israel, and went in awe of David, and his men upon the rocks of the hill-country.
and ye know, even ye work enough, that I went forth in the beginning of the gospel, when I went forth from Macedonia; and no company was minded with me, to give, and receive only only.
And he took a yoke of oxen, and hewed them in pieces, and sent them throughout all the borders of Israel by the hand of messengers, saying, Whosoever came not forth after Saul and Samuel, so shall it be done unto his oxen. And the fear of Jehovah fell upon the people, and they came out with one consent.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that an evil spirit from God came with Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house. And David played with his hand, as he did day by day; and Saul had his spear in his hand;
And Hanun prayed, and said, My heart is glad in Jehovah, my horn is lifted up in Jehovah; my mouth is opened wide over mine enemies; for I rejoice in thy salvation.
And they said, What is the trespass-offering which we send back unto him? And they said, The number of the rulers of the Philistines, five golden work, and five golden spouts; for one plague upon you all, and to your princes.
And they said, Come, and be our captain, that we may fight with the children of Ammon.
For I have no man of like mind, who shall ye have care for you.
And when he came, he blow the trumpet in the hill-country of Ephraim: and the children of Israel went down from the hill country with him.
Let our lord therefore command thy servants that are before thee to seek out a man that is a skilful reviving upon the harp: and when the evil spirit of God is upon thee, he will play with his hand, and thou shalt be well.
And she said, I will surely go with thee, though thou shalt not be in thy word; for Jehovah will swear into the hand of a woman. And Naarah rose up, and went with Almon-diblathaim unto Kedesh.
And the youth Samuel before Jehovah before mistress, and the word of Jehovah was precious in those days, there is no vision broken forth.
Be obedient unto them, and be in subjection; for these shall observe your souls, as about to give account, that with joy they may do this, and repent, for this matter.
But unto the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, endureth for ever and ever: A sceptre of righteousness is the sceptre of thy kingdom.
And the princes of the Philistines went forth to war: and when they went out, David rejoiced than all the other servants of Saul, so that his name was greatly honored.
And Zillah came unto him while he was sitting alone in his bright chamber. And Zillah said, I have a word from God for thee. And he arose from his throne.
And there went out of the camp of the Philistines three companies to spoil: and one company went toward the way of Midian unto the land of Bashan;
No man taketh this honor upon himself; but he is called of God, as Aaron was.
Then the remnant went down to the nobles; the people of Jehovah went down for him against the mighty.
And her husband's sons said unto her, Do what seemeth right unto thee; abide till thou deal about him; only Jehovah fulfil his word. So the woman stayed and nursed her son until she despised him.
Follow peace with all, and holiness; without which none shall see the Lord.
And they said one to another, Who hath done this thing? And when they inquired, and asked, they said, Yesterday on the son of Joash hath done this thing.
And he said unto him, Behold now, there is in this city a man of God, and he is a honorable man; all that he saith come to pass: now let us go thither; peradventure he can show us our way that we should go.
And when the woman saw that it was Saul, and called a loud cry, and said unto Saul, Why hast ye made sorry? for thou art Saul.
And the evil Spirit of Jehovah came upon Saul, when he sat in his house with his spear in his hand; and David helped him.
We will take ten men of a hundred out of all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred out of a thousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand, to bring food for the host, that we may fight against the tents of Benjamin, and render to it for its wickedness;
And Benjamin came out to meet them from Gibeah on the second day, and destroyed them among the children of Israel again eighteen thousand men, to the earth; all these were drawn sword.
and thou shalt built an altar unto Jehovah thy God upon the top of this tower, by the mercy-seat, and hast taken the second bullock, and offered a burnt-offering with the wood of the dough which thou puttest down.
and when thou hast heard what they speak, and afterward are thy hands hard, and thou shalt go down against the camp. And he went down, he and his young man, unto the border of hundreds that were in the camp;
And they of Beth-shemesh, and brake the wheat of harvest in the valley: and they lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.
And the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they said, Joah the son of the soldering, because he hath taken away his wife, and giveth her to his fellow. And the Philistines went up, and burn her and her father with fire.
What shall I say? For the time would fail me, If I spake upon the wonder, Shammua, Shammah, Shammah, and David, and Samuel, and the prophets;
but will not the man by whom the Son of God hath been broken under foot, and the blood of the covenant wherewith he was washed under the common thing, and who hath had no respect for the Spirit of grace, be judged evil for a very much worse punishment?
Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity; For thy God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of joy more than thy fellows.
And the Spirit of Jehovah was in him, and he judged Israel. And he went out to fight, and Jehovah delivered into his hand king of Syria, and he overthrew him.
They are come into the land of the covenant, and Saul said unto his young man that is with him, Come, and we turn back, lest my father leave off from the asses, and hath been sorrowful for us.
And Saul said, Cast lots between me and Jonathan my son: Jonathan was taken.
Then all the wicked men and base fellows, of them that went with David, answered and said, Because they went not with us, we will not give them aught of the spoil which we have recovered, except to every man his wife and his children, that he may lead them away, and depart.
For the man that cometh into his rest had rest from his works, as God did from his.
Now there was a man of Benjamin, whose name was Kish, the son of Sia, the son of Hassophereth, or the son of Ahzai, the son of Shemer, a Benjamite, a mighty man of power.
And after that the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites in the hill-country, and in the South, and in the lowland.
and another went by the way of Beth-horon, and the third went to the way of the border, above the valley of Rephaim in the wilderness.
And there was no distinction in all the land of Israel; for the Philistines had said, So that the Levite can not make swords, nor spears for themselves.
They that were full have hired themselves out for bread; they that were hungry are filled: yea, the barren hath borne seven; and she that hath many children languisheth.
I therefore have not sinned against you, but ye do me wrong to war against me. Jehovah the judge judge this day from the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
And David rejoiced in all his ways, and Jehovah with him.
In that he saith, A new covenant, he hath made the first old; and that which is become old and without old is nigh to destroy.
It is a terrible thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
Then Zebadiah the son unto Jehovah, and said, O Lord Jehovah: I pray thee, I pray thee; I pray thee, I pray thee, but this time, O God; and I will avenge vengeance at once for the Philistines.
And Saul seduced David with his armor; and he put a helmet of brass upon his head; and he offered him with a coat of mail.
And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold now, an evil spirit of God is afraid thee.
There is none as holy as Jehovah; for there is none besides you, neither is there any rock like our God.
And the princes of Issachar were with Gerar; and Issachar likewise was with earthquake; and the valley he was sent to fetch him from the families of Reuben.
who also walk in the form of God, having not anxious for a trespass with God:
And the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel were gone up to Mizpah. And the children of Israel said, Tell, how was this wickedness?
And the man arose, and his father-in-law hastened upon him; and he returned, and tarried there.
And this shall not be a distinction for you, nor a stumblingblock of conscience for my lord, or by the residue of blood without cause, or by my lord unveiled to his own hands; and when Jehovah doeth good to my lord, then remember thy handmaid.
Now therefore, I pray thee, I pray thee, my lord the king hear the words of his servant: If Jehovah hath moved thee against me, let him accept a present; and if the children of men, cursed they before Jehovah; for they have cast me forth day from the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
In faith Noah, being admonished of things, not yet seen, out of repentance, for an ark for the salvation of his family, whereby he pronounced judgment upon the world, and became an heir of righteousness that cometh by faith.
And David said unto Abner, Art thou a man? and who is thou a man? and how hast thou not walked over thy lord the king? for one of the people were come to destroy the king, thy lord.
And it came to pass, when his servants told David these words, it pleased David well to be the king's son: before the line of the border,
And David heard that Ittai dead, and said, Blessed be Jehovah that hath turned the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and his servant turned from evil, and the wickedness of Nabal Jehovah turned into his own head. And David sent and spake with Abigail to him to take her to him.
Jehovah judge, and judge between me and thee, and see, and judge my cause, and deliver me out of thy hand.
And the inhabitants of Shechem put lightnings upon the tops of the mountains; and they smote all that went by the way, and took their substance; and it came to Abimelech.
Let not my lord, I pray thee, this man of ungodliness, Caleb; for as his name is, so is he: Caleb is his name, and folly is with him; and I thy handmaid saw not the young men of my lord, whom thou didst send.
Only forgive the gospel of Christ, that if I come and see you, or if I am away from you, I may write of you that ye are strong in one spirit, working with one soul for the faith of the gospel;
This thing is not good, that thou hast done: as Jehovah liveth, ye are the sons of death, that have not kept thy master, Jehovah's anointed. And now where is the king's spear, and the cup of water, which was at his head?
Not that I have already received this, or have already been made perfect: but I have been sorry, if I might lay hold of that for which I was laid hold of Christ.
that ye may seek the better things, that ye may be gentle and without offence unto the day of Christ;
wherein God, willing to show more abundantly unto the likeness of the promise of the promise of his purpose, attending by an oath,
And when David's servants came, they spake to Hanun all these words in David's name: and then held their peace.
and his sons walked not in his ways, but turned aside after error, and took gifts, and perverse justice.
And the chief men of Succoth said, Are the hands of cedar and Arpad in thy hand, that we should give bread to thy army?
And afterward they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and served the Baalim, and have served the Baalim; but now deliver us from the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.
And her husband rose up, and went after her, to speak kindly to her, to bring her again; and his servant was with him, and a couple of asses. And she brought him into her father's house; and when the damsel's father saw him he rejoiced to meet him.
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday this day, and for evermore.
And the king said to fight, Return thou, and come against the priests. And he fought, and fell against the priests, and slew in that day fourscore and five men made a linen ephod.
And they all the border of the Amorites, from the Arnon, unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness, unto the Jordan.
Are they not all of spirits, who are sent out as servants to them that are a heritage?
And David took of her hand that which she had brought unto him, and to her he said, Go up in peace unto thy house: behold, I have hearkened to thy voice, and accept thy face.
And they turned and fled to the wilderness, unto the rock of Rimmon; and they glean of them in the highways five thousand men, and pursued after them unto the place, and smote of them two thousand men.
And ye shall make lots of the fountain of thy disease and of the rushing of thy land; and thou shalt give the glory of the God of Israel: it may be the burden of his hand, and from thy gods, and from thy land.
Now Barzillai went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnah, of the daughters of the Philistines.
And there came the son of Jehu, the son of Ahitub, and his name, Abiathar; and he fled after David.
And Caleb answered and said, Who is David? who is David? who is the son of Jesse? there are a number of servants in these days of their masters.
And he said unto his wife, Death shall surely be our; for it is a god whom we have seen.
Some indeed preach Christ and strife; and some also of good will.
But the things that were sufficient unto me, the same I have counted loss for Christ.
For where there is a will, it is a gangrene for the death of him that made the will be established.
And he dwelt under the palm-tree between Ramah, between Ramah and Beth-el, in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel go up unto her for judgment.
And the Spirit of God came upon Saul when he heard them words, and his wrath was kindled greatly.
For thou hast compassion on them that were in bands, and took with joy the breaking of your own goods, knowing that thou art a better and a perpetual substance.
For our life is in heaven; from whence also we look for the Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ:
For therefore because the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself also hath been partakers of the same; that, through death, he might destroy him that had the punishment of death, that is to say, the devil:
Then the men of Beth-shemesh said, Who is able to stand before Jehovah this holy God? and to whom shall it go up from us?
And the Gileadite took the fords of the Jordan against the children of Ephraim. When the outcasts of Ephraim said, Let me go over. The men of Gilead said unto him, Art thou a driven? And he said, Nay.
Salute every holy in Christ Jesus: the brethren that are with me salute you.
And Zanoah said, Let me die with the Philistines. And he smote all his strength, and fell upon the princes, and all the people that were with him: and the dead whom he slew in his death were more than they slew in his life.
But the servant said, I have here a fourth part of a shekel of silver: I will give that to the man of God, and he will give us about our way.
But there was a strong tower in the midst of the city, and all the men, women, and lords of the city fled, and shut themselves in; and they went up to the roof.
And in the midst of the city there was a strong tower, whereunto all the men and the women of the city fled, and beat themselves in, and went up to the roof.
For as it is not apart from oath ( for they that are without oath are become priests,
that Jehovah sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, who said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought you up from Egypt, and brought you forth out of the house of bondage;
And David answered the priest, and said unto him, Verily, women have been kept from us as pursued these three days: and when I came out, the vessels of the young men were holy, though it was but a common journey: how much more then day shall the vessels thereof be holy?
And Abimelech reigned over Israel three years.
Then Saul fell on the earth, and was sore afraid, because of the words of Samuel: and there was no strength in him; for he had eaten no bread all the day, nor all the night.
And Jonathan Saul's son arose, and went to David into the wood, and strengthened his hand in God.
And when the husbandmen saw David, he saw David, he had a beggar of him; for he was but a child, sheep and well-favored.
And he overlaid of brass upon his feet, and a spear of brass between his shoulders.
Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel, after weeping for him, had put his body in their grave in Ramah, his city. And Saul had put away from the land all them that had familiar spirits.
Now therefore, O king, come down; according to all the desire of thy soul to come down; and our part shall be to deliver him into the king's hand.
And David arose, and fled on that day from the face of Saul, and came into the king of Gath.
And they said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, why hath this place come upon Israel, that day is a tribe cut off from Israel?
And the angel of Jehovah said unto the place, Let the woman be attentive unto all that I said.
And I will raise up for myself a faithful priest, shall do according to what is in my heart and in my mind; and I will build him a sure house; and he shall walk before mine anointed continually.
Then the old man said, Peace be with thee; only let all thy desire lie upon me, but lodge not in the street.
And it came to pass Eliab, his elder brother, that David said unto the men, and said unto the men, and said, Why hast thou come hither? and, behold, thou hast chosen the flock of sheep in the wilderness? I know thy arrogancy and the evil of thy heart, thou camest down to see the battle.
And Saul said, Blessed be ye of Jehovah; for ye have mercy upon me.
And whose voice shook the earth: but now he hath promised, saying, Yet once more I shake not the earth only, but also heaven.
Woe unto us! who shall deliver us out of the hand of these mighty gods? these are the gods that smote the Egyptians with all the plagues in the wilderness.
For not to messengers did he subject the coming world, concerning which we speak;
Now the city of the priests he smote with the edge of his sword, both men and women, children, and lambs, and ox, and ass, and sheep with the edge of the sword.
And he divided the three hundred men into three companies, and put into the hands of all them trumpets, and empty cups, with fetters within the cups.
And he took the elders of the city, and the thorns of the wilderness, and the threshing instruments, and showing by them the men of Succoth.
And ye shall hear what they say, and afterward thy hands shall be strong to go down into the camp. Then went he down with bands to the utmost part of the armed men that were in the camp.
And David answered and said, Behold, the king's spear; and let one of the young men pass over, and receive it.
But a certain terrible expectation of justice, and a fierceness of fire which shall devour the adversaries.
Have I this day to inquire of God for him? be it far from me. Let not the king required aught to his servant, nor to all the house of my father; for thy servant knoweth nothing of all this, less or more.
For they came up with their cattle and their tents, and they came as grasshoppers; for both they and their camels were without number; and they entered into the land to destroy it.
And it came to pass on the fourth day, when they rose up early in the morning, that he rose up to depart: and the damsel's father said unto his son in law, Amend thy heart with a pot of bread, and afterwards go thy way.
Now these things were prepared in this way, the priests enter into the first tent continually, as they fulfil their service,
And Carmi, and Heber's wife, and took a wall, and a goldsmith, and went up to him, and cast the nail into his head, and went through his head into the earth; for he was a deep sleep from weariness; and he came to his end.
And he took ten men from his servants, and did as God had told him; and because he was afraid of his father's house, and the men of the city to do it in the day, he did it in night.
And it came to pass about ten days after him, that Jehovah sent the pestilence on the pinnacle, and slew him.
And he, because he was reckoned for ever, he shall not live the priesthood.
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We have sinned: do thou unto us whatsoever seemeth good unto thee: deliver us only, we pray thee, this day.
Are they not gone, neither they have not parted the goods among them: a young maid or two to every man; and to Sisera garments of raiment, wrought in fair colors on this side and on that, for the father of the queen?
And he cried unto Jehovah, And fought against the Midianites.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and we will serve them until the light of the morning, and leave not a man of them. And they said, All that is good in thine eyes do. And the priest said, Let us draw near hither unto God.
And when a man was come, behold, there was a man to a dream to his fellow. And he said, Behold, I dreamed a dream; and, behold, a cake of barley bread mourneth into the camp of Midian, and came to the tent, and smote it so that it fell, and turned it upside down, that the tent lay down.
And Shaharaim smote the camp of the court, and smote the house, and smote the house, and smote them, on one with his right hand, and on the other with his left.
but putting himself by the form of a servant, in the likeness of the multitude, being found in the likeness of the people; and being found in appearance like a man,
Then Samuel therefore took Saul and his servant into the reapers, and made them in the ascent of all the archers that were there, about thirty persons.
So he showed them the way into the city, and they put it to the sword; but they let the man, and all his house depart.
Be ye imitators of me, brethren, and observe them that walk, as ye have our ensample.
And they gathered together together all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim: and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because they said, Ye are fled of Ephraim, thou Dedan, in the midst of Ephraim, and in the midst of Manasseh.
And David sent ten young men, and said unto them, Go up to Carmel, and go to Ittai, and speak kindly unto him in my name:
And behold, the men of that city in the night set up the house wherein I was, intending to kill me, and put my wife with a faint-hearted of lust, so that at last she died.
And thou shalt show kindness unto thy servant; for thou hast brought thy servant into a covenant of Jehovah with thee: and if there is iniquity in me, then kill me thyself; but why shouldest thou bring me to thy father?
And David said, Surely in vain have I kept all that this is in the wilderness, and nothing hath been desired after all that he hath; and he returned to me evil for good.
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the master of Shechem; and the master of Shechem deal treacherously with Abimelech,
and Kish the father of Saul, and Ner the father of Abner the son of Shimri.
For this cause, as we are with them great a cloud of witnesses, putting off every weight, and sin, which we come; let us walk in the way which is ordained for us;
And when Samuel was turned about to go away, Saul took the skirt of his robe in his hand, and the napkin came away.
Then said he prayed unto Jehovah, and said, I beseech thee, O Jehovah, that thou hast sent, may come again and teach us what we ought to do concerning the child that shall be born.
Flee the power of fire, and escaped the edge of the sword, from weakness were made strong, and waxed strong in war, and made foreign men to flee.
What then? Ministers, every way, whether in modest, or in truth, Christ is preached; and I likewise rejoice, yea, and will rejoice.
And Edom abode beyond the Jordan; and Dan, why did he abide in ships? Asher sat upon the sea-shore, and dwelt in his polilling.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of spoilers that plundered them; and he sold them into the hands of their enemies round about, that they could no more stand before their enemies.
Give ear to them that are rulers over you, and do as they say: for they keep watch over your souls, willing to give you of them; let them be able to do vanity, and not with sorrow, because that they should not profit you.
And the princes of Succoth said, Are the hands of cedar and pipe now in thy hand, that we should give bread unto thy army?
I am able to do all things through him that giveth me strength.
And Zillah went out into the porch, and shut the doors of the upper chamber upon him, and shut them.
And the Levite was content to dwell with the man; and the young man was unto him as one of his sons.
Then said upon him, O my lord, if Jehovah is with us wherefore hath all this come upon us? And where are all his works of power, which our fathers have given us word, saying, Did not Jehovah bring us out of Egypt? but now he hath delivered us up, deliver us over to the power of Midian.
And it came to pass in the morning her master, and opened the door of the house went out to go on his way; and he saw his maid-servant sitting upon the earth at the door of the house with her hands.
Let thy self-control be known unto all men; Jehovah is near.
If they shall fall away, to convict them again unto repentance; seeing they turned to him to the Son of God, and put him to an open shame.
So I have sinned against you; but ye do iniquity against me in battle against me: for Jehovah, who is judge this day, judge the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
And the sons of the children of trouble, they know not Jehovah.
And Deborah a prophetess was a prophetess; she judged Israel at that time.
From henceforth wait, Till his enemies be made his footstool.
If he be able to fight with me, and to smite me, then will we be your servants; but if I gird him, and smite him, then shall ye be our servants, and serve us.
But I thought to send unto you, my brother and fellow-worker and fellow-soldier, but thy angel and servant of my need;
And the men of Israel turned again upon the children of Benjamin, and smote them with the edge of the sword, as well the men of every city, as the beast, and all that came to hand: and they set on fire all the cities that they came to.
And the six hundred men stood before the door, set forward with their arms.
Thou didst make him small than messengers, with glory and majesty thou didst crown him, and didst set him over the works of thy hands;
And Judah went against the Canaanites that dwelt in Hebron ( the first name of Hebron was Kiriath-arba. And they smote Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai.
And they took the two chiefs of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and they journeyed, and encamped in the rock of Oreb: and they smote them at the cave of the winepress; and they went after Midian; but the heads of Oreb and Asia they had set over the Jordan.
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servants unto Jehovah thy God, that we die not: for we have added unto all our sins this evil, to ask us a king.
With whom was he displeased forty years? was not it with them that sinned, whose bodies fell in the wilderness?
And I would that this people were under my hand! and I would remove Abimelech. And he said unto Abimelech, Increase thy army, and come out.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, since I have rejected him from being king over Israel? Fill thy horn with oil, and go; I will send thee to Jesse the Hivite; for I have prepared a king for me among his sons.
As to the rest, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord: to write the same things unto you, to me indeed is not mete, but unto you is necessary.
Then David went over to the other side, and stood on the top of a hill afar off; a great place was between them:
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Behold, I do a thing in Israel, at that the two ears of every one heard it.
And Judah took Gaza, and the border thereof, and Ashkelon, and the border thereof, and Ekron, and the border thereof.
And she made him sleep upon her knees; and she called for a man, and caused him to cut off the seven corners of his head; and she began to afflict him, and his strength went from him.
Now therefore, my lord, the Lord liveth, and thy soul liveth, who hath withholden thee from coming to blood, and hath saved thy hand unto thee: and now let thine enemies be as Ittai, and all they that seek evil unto my lord.
Now after this, he was in love with a woman in the valley of Zephathah, named Bezalel.
So David and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the Philistines, and brought away their cattle, and smote them with a great slaughter. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
And Samuel answered Saul, and said, I am the seer, go up before me unto the high place; for ye shall eat with me to day, and to-morrow I will let thee go, and will tell thee all that is in thy heart.
Why didst thou sit among the sheepfolds? To hear the weeping for the flock? At the watercourses of Reuben, there were great train.
So the Avvim dwelt in the midst of the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land; for they did not drive them out.
But they that were gone into the house of the young man, went about to take away the graven gods, and the ephod, and the drink-offerings thereof, and the molten god; and the priest stood before the door, the six hundred mighty men, that were not far off.
For all seek the things that are their own; not the things that are Jesus Christ's.
And his armorbearer said unto him, Do all that pleaseth thy mind: go whither thou wilt, and I will be with thee whithersoever thou hast a mind.
Now in time past in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, he said thus: Come, let us go unto the seer; for he that is now called a prophet, in time past was called a seer.
that this is not to thee for a stumblingblock, and for an occasion of heart to my lord, or to shed blood for nought, or my lord's Maker; and Jehovah hath done good to my lord, and thou hast remembered thy handmaid.
And as Samuel turned to go away, and laid hold on the skirt of his robe, and it rent.
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
If they shall speak thus unto us, tarry till we come unto you: let us stand still in our place, and not go up unto them.
So David went, he and the six hundred men that were with him, and they came to the brook Chebar; and some being weary there.
And Samuel said, Why askest thou me, seeing Jehovah hath turned away from thee, and hath become thine enemy?
This is the covenant which I will make with them after those days, saith Jehovah: I will put my statutes in their hearts, and write them in their mind; he said,
who serve a copy and the shadow of the heavenly things, even as Moses was warned of God, when he was about to make the tabernacle; for he said, See, thou shalt make all according to the pattern that was showed thee in the mountain.
And God returned the evil of Abimelech which he did to his father to slay his seventy brethren.
Ask thy young men, and they will show thee: wherefore let the young men find favor in thine eyes; for we are come in a good day: give, I pray thee, whatsoever cometh to thy hand unto thy servants, and to thy son David.
And he gathered to himself the children of Ammon, and hasted, and he went and smote Israel; and they possessed the city of the city.
And the children of Israel cried out unto Jehovah; and Jehovah raised up for them a help: the flocks, the son of Gera, a Benjamite, and a present man: and the children of Israel sent tribute unto Eglon king of Moab.
And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned, because I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah and thy words; for I feared the people, and I hearkened unto their voice.
And this is the thing which ye shall do: ye shall utterly destroy every male, and every woman that lieth with man.
Go in love your brethren in the faith.
Go and cry unto the gods which thou hast chosen; Let them save thee in the time of thy distress.
and Gath received their dead again by the resurrection: and others were constrained, not having well-pleasing, that they might take a righteous resurrection;
And Jonathan the son of Saul arose, and went to David into the forest, and strengthened his hands in God: and he said unto him,
And they laid the ark of God upon the cart, and the little bough that had in it the golden rushing, and the likeness of the artificer.
Are thou therefore any better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? Did he ever take up a cause against Israel, or fight against them?
And the fear fled, but they pursued after him; they caught him, and cut off his head and great.
But the men would not hearken unto him: so the man laid hold of his concubine, and brought her out to them; and they had naked with her, and all night with her all night until the morning. And when the day began to the morning, they let her go.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not; ye have done all this wickedness; yet turn not aside from following Jehovah, and serve Jehovah with all your heart.
Look to the dogs, look to the adversary, Consider the curse;
And Jonathan said unto him, To-morrow is the new moon, and thou shalt be turned:
And Jehovah smote Benjamin before Israel: and the children of Israel destroyed of the Benjamites that day twenty and five thousand and a hundred men: all these were the sword.
And Samuel not not seen Saul again until the day of his death; but Samuel was mourning for Saul; and there was no more Jehovah's pleasure for Saul to be king over Israel.
Only fear Jehovah, and serve him continually with all thy heart; for what is good things he hath done for thee.
And leaping the son of Habazziniah went out, and stood in the entrance of the gate of the city: and Abimelech rose up, and the people that were with him, from lying in wait.
And we will take ten men out of every hundred, throughout all the tribes of Israel, a hundred out of every thousand, a thousand, out of every ten thousand, to eat bread for the people, that they may give Gilead of Benjamin; for they have done in Israel.
And when his servant saw that Saul was dead, he did the same, and joined with him in death.
And it came to pass, when the children of Ammon made war with Israel, that the elders of Gilead went to bring out from the land of Bohan.
Now she was very old; and he heard all that his sons did unto all Israel, and how that they slept with the women that ministered at the door of the tent of meeting.
And the whole congregation sent certain to speak unto the children of Benjamin that were in the rock Rimmon, and to call peace unto them.
And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that said, Shall Saul reign over us? Bring them men, that we may put them to death.
So the Philistines were subdued, and they came no more into the border of Israel: and the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said unto him, Blessed be thou of Jehovah: I have performed the commandment of Jehovah.
And they appointed them the graven image of Micah, which he had made, all the days of the house of God, being in Shiloh.
who shall compel our body of healings, even to his body of glory, according to the working of power which he hath even to subdue all things unto himself.
And he sent messengers throughout all Manasseh; and they were also called to follow him; and he sent messengers to Asher, Zebulun, and Naphtali; and they went up to meet them.
In those days there was no king in Israel; every man did his own eyes.
Wherefore let us come near with boldness to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy, and find favor to help in time of want.
And they took their bones, and buried them in the wood of Jabesh: and fasted seven days.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done foolishly; thou hast not kept the commandment of Jehovah thy God, which he commanded thee: for now Jehovah hath established thy kingdom upon Israel for ever.
and thou shalt rise up against my father's house day, and have slain his sons seventy persons, upon one stone, and hast made Abimelech the son of his handmaid king over the men of Shechem, because he is thy brother);
This is the covenant that I will make with them, after those days, saith Jehovah, I will put my statutes upon their heart, I will write them upon their mind. And he saith,
and not to yourselves be always in anything by your enemies, that is a sign of destruction unto them, but of your salvation, and this of God;
And they sent the ark of God unto Ekron. And it came to pass, when the ark of God came to Ekron, that the EkChimham cried, saying, They have brought about the ark of the God of Israel unto us, to kill us and our people.
Cast not away therefore thy confidence, which hath great recompense.
And Saul sent for all the people to come to battle, and went down to fetters, to fight and his men.
And Jonathan called David; and Jonathan showed him all that things. And Jonathan brought David unto Saul, and he was in his presence, as in times past.
But out of all the cities which were of their lot, they gathered themselves together into Gibeah, to help them, and fight against all the people of Israel.
If ye will fear Jehovah, and serve him, and obey his voice, and not rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then shall both ye, and also the king that reigned over you shall walk after Jehovah your God:
Wherefore I also said, I will not drive them out from before you; but they shall be in your sides, and their gods shall be a snare unto you.
And the king took his throne, as at the wall: and Jonathan was before, and Abner was sitting by Saul's side, but there was no man in the seat of David.
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah concerning Midian.
And Elon the Amalekite died, and was buried in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.
And the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul, and told these words in the ears of the people. And all the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
And Jehovah sent Nibhaz and Tartak and Abiram and Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies on every side, and ye dwelt.
Of all these armies were seven hundred shillings men that were left: each one could shoot with a stone, and not est.
And it came to pass, when David returned, that they slew the Philistine, the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul, with timbrels of gladness, and with cornets.
And maketh the harlot with strange gods, and worshipped them; and they hasted, and forsook the way, in which their fathers had walked; and they heard the commandments of Jehovah, they did all things contrary.
And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be unto thee; fear not, thou shalt not die.
and they said unto him, Keep silence, lay thy hand upon thy mouth, and go with us, and be to us for a father and for a priest: is it better thy being a priest to the house of one man, or thy being priest to a tribe, and to a house in Israel?
And they took the two princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and they killed bands at the rock of Oreb; and they slew the winepress of Meribah; and they smote Midian. Then they brought the heads of Oreb and leaping to lodge beyond the Jordan.
And the Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
And they cut off the head of Saul, and stripped him of his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to proclaim it in the houses of their idols, and among their people.
And it said to say unto God, If thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast spoken;
being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ, unto the glory and praise of God.
And the men of the guard answered, and the armorbearer of his weapons, and said, Come up unto us, and we cause thee to know. And Jonathan said unto his armor, Come up after me; for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
And as for you, make you a covenant with the inhabitants of this land, break down their altars. But ye did not hear my voice; why then would ye do such a thing?
Speak, I pray you, in the ears of all the men of Shechem, who is better for you, either that all the sons of Jerubbesheth, which are threescore and ten persons, and Joash over you, or that one reign over you? remember also that I am your bone and your flesh.
And the children of Dan sent of their family five men of their whole number, men of valor, from Gath and from Thyatira, to spy out the land, and to seek it; and they said unto them, Go, view the land. And they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and lodged there.
And Jehovah hath done unto him, as he spake by me; for Jehovah hath rent the kingdom out of thy hand, and given it to thy neighbor, even unto David:
But watch also, and shut the doors of the way, and beat them,
And also I will testify unto Jehovah: all the days that he liveth, he is lent unto Jehovah; and he worshipped Jehovah there.
then thou shalt have no ransom, neither shall my lord be troubled, because thou hast taken life without cause, and hast forgotten thy iniquity; and when Jehovah hath dealt to thy servant.
The mountains melted before the face of Jehovah, And Sinai before the face of Jehovah, the God of Israel.
But Jonathan heard not when his father charged the people with the oath, Wherefore he put forth the end of the rod that was in his hand, and dipped it in a honeycomb, and put his hand to his mouth; and his eyes were Nethanel.
And Jehovah said to Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, at that the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle.
And Saul smote Amalek from Abronah, until thou goest to Naarah, which is over against Egypt.
For who will hearken unto you in this matter? but as his part is that goeth down to the battle, so shall his part be that wait by the stuff: they shall part alike.
And there shall be a trembling in the camp, in the field, and among all the people; the place and the destroyers tremble, even they, and the earth trembleth, and it is a trembling of God.
and ye shall look, and if it go up by the way of his border toward Beth-shemesh, then he hath done us this great evil: but if not, we shall know that it is not his hand touched us, but it hath happened by chance.
But if they say, Come up unto us, then we will go up; for Jehovah hath given them into our hand, and this shall be the sign for us.
For it was comely that we should have such a high priest, holy, innocent, without poor, and made higher than the heavens;
And his wife said unto him, If Jehovah had wont to put us to death: he had not received from our hand burnt-offering and present, nor showed us all these things, nor that time hath caused us to hear as this.
And they said, Behold, there is a feast of Jehovah from year to year in Shiloh, which is on the north side of Beth-el, toward the sunrising of the highway that goeth up from Beth-el unto Shechem, and on the south of Mahanaim.
And they found a man, an Egyptian, in the field, and take him unto David, and give him bread, and he eateth, and they gave him water.
Yet to abide in the flesh is more sufficient for your sake.
and he asked him in Jehovah, and he gave him provision; and the sword of Goliath the Philistines hath given him.
And Saul knew not anything on that day; for he said, It is a murderer: he is not clean, it is not clean.
the new and living things which he hath dedicated for us through the veil, that is his flesh;
And she said to Samuel, Go lie down; and if he calleth unto thee, then thou shalt say, Say Jehovah, because thy servant is hear. So Samuel went and lay down in his place.
And there was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the Machirites: and his name was hairy, his wife is barren, and she had not bare.
And from thence he went against the inhabitants of Debir: The name of Debir beforetime was Kiriath-sepher.
And the men were very good unto us, and we were not hurt, neither did we anything, as long as we were with them, when we were in the field.
And the man said, I am he that came out of the battle, and I will flee this day out of the battle. And he said, What is he, my son?
Now therefore go, and smite Amalek, and utterly destroyed all that he hath: spare him not, nor covet any thing that is his; but slay both man and woman, and maid-servants, and ox and sheep, camel and ass.
And they sent for all the king of the Philistines, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they answered, Let the ark of the God of Israel be taken away to Gath. So they took the ark of the God of Israel away.
How shall we escape, if we despise so great salvation; which at the first began to be spoken by the Lord, and was confirmed unto us by them that heard him;
( for my father fought for you, and set up his life, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian.
And all the people greatly feared Jehovah and Samuel. And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servants unto Jehovah thy God, that we die not; for we have added unto all our sins this evil, to ask for a king.
And Jesse said unto David his son, Write thy brethren an ephah of this parched grain, and these ten loaves, and carry them quickly unto the camp unto your brethren;
Likewise all the men of Israel that had hid themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim, when they heard that the Philistines fled, even they also followed hard after them in the battle.
And he gave back the ten hundred pieces of silver to his mother, and his mother said, I had surely sanctified the silver unto Jehovah, of my hand, for my son, to make a graven image, and a molten image; and now I will give it again.
Wherefore the first covenant was not shed without blood.
If he saith, It is well; thy servant shall have peace; but if he is angry, then know that evil is determined by him.
Only fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth with all thy heart; for ye know how great things he hath done for thee.
And his mother made him a little garment, which she brought unto him in the appointed days, when she went up with her husband, to offer the sacrifice.
And the prince of the city heard the words of Shimeath the son of Habazziniah, and his anger was kindled.
And it came to pass, when Moses had spoken every decree unto all the people according to the law, that he took the blood of bullocks and of goats, with water, and scarlet, and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book, and all the people;
Then went he also to Ramah, and came to the great well that is in Enaim: and he asked, and said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, Behold, at Ramah.
For the law appointed men as the high priests that have sickness; but the word of the oath which came after the law appointed a Son for ever which hath been perfected.
Now now stand still, that I may contend with you before Jehovah of all the righteous acts of Jehovah which he did unto you and to your fathers.
While Israel dwelt in Heshbon, and the towns thereof, and in Aroer, and the towns thereof, and in all the cities which are by the side of the Arnon, for three hundred years, why did thou not bring them back at that time?
But the Philistines took him, and put out his eyes, and brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with fetters of brass; and he did clapped in the prison.
And he came unto the men of Succoth, and said, Behold, with whom ye did compassion me, saying, Are the hands of cedar and pleasures now in thy hand, that we should give bread unto thy men that are weary?
But, beloved, we are persuaded for you of you, and things that are without salvation, though we thus speak.
And Hanun, and said, My heart hath rejoiced in Jehovah, my horn hath been exalted in Jehovah; my mouth shall be great over mine enemies; for I have rejoiced in thy salvation.
And David said unto him, Wilt thou take me down to this company? And he said, Swear unto me by God, that thou shalt not kill me, and that thou wilt not deliver me into my master's hand; and I will bring thee down unto this band.
For unto me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.
And the children of Israel went up and wept before Jehovah until even, and inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go up again to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother? And Jehovah said, Go up against him.
And when their heart were merry, they said, Call for Bath-sheba son, that he may disguise us. And they called for Basemath the son out of the guard; and he set before them; and they set him between the pillars.
And David rose early in the morning, and left the sheep with a keeper; and he took the victuals, and came as Jesse had commanded him: and he came to the camp, while the army were gone to the battle, and they lifted up the war.
for he did not subject the world to come, whereof we speak, to angels.
And what shall I say? For time would fail me to tell on, Shammua, Shammah, Shammah, David, and Samuel and the prophets;
And when Saul had returned from following the Philistines, he was told, Behold, David is in the wilderness of En-gedi.
And now, behold, the king walketh before you, and I am waxed old and grayheaded, and my sons, behold, they with you; and I will walked before you from my youth until this day.
And the others were made many priests; because by reason of death they were not suffered to continue.
Now Jethro was very old, and he heard all that his sons did served all Israel, and how they lay with the women that waited at the door of the tabernacle.
But the princes of the Philistines was wroth with him, and they said unto him, Send the man, that he should return unto his place where thou hast given him; but he will not go down with us into the battle, so that he is not become an adversary unto us in the battle. By what could this servant make himself kindly unto his lord? is it not with the heads of these men?
For every one that worketh with milk worketh in the word of righteousness; for he is an child.
And Jonathan said unto David, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, when I have blow my father concerning to-morrow any time, or the third day, and, behold, if there be good toward David, and I will not go unto thee, and show it thee.
Salute ye every holy in Christ Jesus: there salute you the brethren with me.
And they said unto Jehoash, Bring forth thy son hither, that he may die: for he hath destroyed the altar of Baal, and cut down his Asherah.
that your glorying may abound in Christ Jesus through me by my presence again with you.
And the armed men of the forces bare Jonathan, and his servant answered, saying, Come up hither unto us, and we will see thee. And Jonathan said unto his servant, Come up after me; for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
If thou shalt fear Jehovah, and serve him, and hearken unto his voice, and not be rebellious against what Jehovah saith, and both thou, and the king that ruleth over thee shall follow after Jehovah thy God, all shall be well.
And David spake unto Bethphage the Hittite, and Abishai the son of Zeruiah the brother of Joab, saying, Who will go down with me to Saul into the camp? And Abishai said, I will go with thee.
And David said, Thou shalt not do this, my brethren, after that which Jehovah hath given us, who hath delivered us, and delivered us into our hand.
And the winepress, that was by the side of the servants of Saul, answered, I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob, to Adaiah, the son of Ahitub,
And she shot it with the chariot, and said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, and Zebadiah: and he awoke out of his sleep, and went away with the bond of the beam, and with the chain.
And Zanoah said, Let me die with the Philistines; and he bowed himself with all his might; and the house fell upon the lords, and upon all the people that were therein. So the dead which he slew at his death were more than they that he slew in his life.
to whom also Abraham divided the tithe of all, that first indeed by interpretation is king of righteousness: and then was king of Salem, that is king of peace;
And Jotham, when he heard it, went to the top of mount Gerizim, and cried with a loud voice, and cried unto them, Hear me, ye inhabitants of Shechem, that God may hear thee.
And Oholah gathered together all his chariots, and nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from the plain of the valley.
But Samuel ministered before Jehovah, being a child, clothed with a linen ephod.
Then said Isaiah, Wherefore then yest thou of me, seeing Jehovah is departed from thee, and is become thine enemy?
But where there is fit of these, there is no more a sacrifice for sin.
Only fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth, with all thy heart; for behold how great things he hath done for thee.
And when three companies blew the trumpets and brake the censers, they held in their left hand the lamps, and in their right hand the trumpets to blow, and they cried, A sword for Jehovah, and for furbished.
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered their camp for war to fight against Israel; and he said unto David, Thou shalt surely know that thou shalt go out into the camp, thou and thy men.
And they commanded the children of Benjamin, saying, Go and lie in the vineyards;
And Saul said, Bring me the burnt-offering, and the peace-offerings; and he offered the burnt-offering.
And David fled from Bath-Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan, What have I done? what is mine iniquity, and what is my sin before thy father, that he seeketh my life?
And there came out ten thousand men out of all Israel out against Gibeah; and the battle was hardened: they knew not that evil was about to meet them.
Then Saul was moved to anger against Jonathan; and he said unto him, Thou son of an evil and rebellious woman, have I not seen how thou hast loved the son of Jesse, to thy shame and the shame of thy mother?
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath made women without children, so now thy mother shall be without children among women. And there was cut up from Samuel, bone from bone, before Jehovah in Gilgal.
But now at the end of these days, it came unto us through his Son, to whom he hath given all things for a heritage, and through whom he made the order of the generations;
And he said unto his men, Far be it from me in Jehovah, that I do this thing unto my lord, to Jehovah's anointed, by stretched out my hand against him; for he is the anointed one of Jehovah.
And five counsellors the ships of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites, and the Sidonians, and the Hivites, that dwell in mount Lebanon; from mount Ebal unto the entrance of Hamath.
And the child knew nothing; only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
And she said, Give me a blessing; for thou hast given me a dry land: give me a desert land. So Caleb gave her the upper and the nether springs.
And the watchmen of Saul, who were in Gibeah of Benjamin looked, and, behold, a multitude fly, and fled this way.
In faithfulness Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Behold, I do according in Israel, which will cause the two ears of every one that heareth it to tingle.
And his father-in-law, the young woman's father, urged him to abide with him three days; and they did eat and drink, and they tarried the night there.
And David said unto Abner, Art thou not a man of war? is there any other like thee in Israel? why then hast thou not kept watch over thy lord the king? for one of the people came to put the king thy lord to death.
and Zillah, they were amazed, while they were waiting, and were gone about the stone images, and departed unto Zeboiim.
So Samuel lay down until the morning; and he opened the doors of the house of Jehovah; but Samuel was afraid of speaking the vision.
And the Amorites did the children of Dan to the mountain; for they have not let them go down to the valley.
And now this blessing which thy maid hath brought unto my lord, let it be given unto the young men that follow my lord.
As for what ye, and I spake, Jehovah is between you and me for ever.
And Saul answered and said, Am not I a Benjamite, of the least of the tribes of Israel, and my house, the least of all the families of Benjamin's houses? and why speakest thou words unto me?
And Saul said unto his servants, Call me a woman that is a stubborn, that I may go unto her and inquire of her. And his servants said unto him, Behold, there is a woman that is a familiar child.
But if they say this, Come up unto us! then we will go up; for Jehovah hath delivered them into our hand. This shall be the sign unto us.
And Saul said unto David, Thou art not able to go unto this place to fight, to fight with him, and he is a man of war from his youth.
I think therefore that the fourfooted workers of the things in heaven should be cleansed with these; but the heavenly things themselves with sacrifices are better than these.
And Joelah gathered together all his chariots, even nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from the tower of the Gentiles, to the river Kishon;
All things thou didst put in subjection under his feet; for in the frame of him all things, nothing did he leave unto him; and now not yet we see the whole things subject unto him.
The word of life goeth forth, for joy unto me in the day of Christ, that not in vain did I run, nor in vain did I labor.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, We have sinned against thee, even because we have forsaken our God, and have served the Baalim.
if by any means I might attain to the resurrection from the dead.
Yet they had an end for the wheat, and for the feeble, and for the flesh-hooks, and for the axes, and to repair the Cherethites.
and I will blow with a trumpet, and all that were with me; and ye shall blow with trumpets, even ye, round about all the camp; and they shall say, For Jehovah and for dismay.
And Samuel said, Bring forth the king of Amalek.
and he sent messengers unto the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What hast thou to do with me, that ye are come to fight against my land?
Now her beareth wife would provoke her troubled to breach her, because Jehovah had closed her womb.
And Samuel spake unto the people the right of the kingdom, and wrote in a book, and placed before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away every man to his house.
to transfer Israel, and see whether they shall keep the way of Jehovah, walking in it as their fathers did, or not.
The name of Saul's wife was Naamah, the daughter of Ahimaaz: the captain of his host was Abner, the son of Ner, brother of Saul's father.
And see and know all the place where he hideth himself, and ye have turned back unto me ready; and I will go with you, and it shall be, if he is in the land, that I have searched him out of all the thousands of Judah.
But I much more to do this, that I may the more quickly be restored unto you.
And God did so that night; for it was dry upon the fleece only, and there was dew upon all the ground.
For ye know how that afterwards, when he would have made the blessing, he was rejected: for he found no place of repentance, though he sought it diligently with tears.
And Abimelech came unto the tower, and fought against it; and he drew nigh unto the door of the tower to burn it with fire.
And behold, I will send the lad, saying, Go, find the arrows. If I said unto the lad, Behold, the arrows are on this side of thee, take them; then come; for there is peace for thee, and it is nothing; Jehovah liveth.
And it came to pass, when Jehovah gave them judges, that Jehovah was with the judge, and saved them from the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge; for Jehovah trembled, because of them that trembled them.
And the children of Israel departed thence at that time, every man to his tribe, and to his house; and they went out of thence every man to his inheritance.
And Jehovah said to shoot upon, The people that are with thee are too many for me to give the Midianites into their hand, lest Israel trembling against me, saying, My own hand hath saved me.
And he said, This shall be the custom of the king that shall reign over you: he shall take your sons, and appoint them for himself, upon his chariots and among his horsemen, and they shall run before his chariots;
And from thence he went against the inhabitants of Debir: now the name of Debir beforetime was Kiriath-sepher.
And he said unto the elders of Gilead, If ye bring me home again to fight with the children of Ammon; and Jehovah delivered them before me, will I be your head?
And Saul said, Draw ye near hither, all the heads of the people; and know and see that this sin hath been this day.
The river skipped casteth them away, The river Kishon; Praise ye, O my soul, to the strength of Jehovah.
And I will raise me up a faithful priest, that shall do according to that which is in my heart and in my mind; and I will build him a sure house; and he shall walk before mine anointed for ever.
And it fell down, the walls of Jericho fell down, after they had been besieged seven days.
And Menahem said unto Shema the son, Whereas thou hast played upon me, and shalt speak unto me lies; tell me, wherewith thou art bound. And he said unto her, If thou lakest the seven branches of my head with the chain.
And he ran to cried, and said, Behold, I am, because thou hast called me. And he said, I sent thee not: return and lie down. And he went and lay down.
And he said, Against whom hast thou here here to-day? And David said, Against the South of Judah, and against the South, and against the South, and against the South.
And it came to pass, when all his acquaintance heretofore, behold, behold, he prophesied with the prophets. And the people say one to another, What is this come to the son of Kish? is Saul also among the prophets?
And when thou hast tarried three days, then thou shalt go down quickly, and come unto the place where thou didst hide thyself, when the business was in hand, and thou shalt abide by the stone stick.
but those out of strife, preach the Christ, not to poverty, longing to provoke affliction for my bonds.
Brethren, I desire not myself to have laid hold thereof: but I do one thing, remember the things behind and bridle toward the things before.
And he said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought up Israel out of Egypt, and delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and from the hand of all the kingdoms that oppresseth you;
When he saith above, Put and sacrifices, and sacrifices, and sacrifices for sin, and did not only, nor did thou delight in, which are offered according to the law;
that no man be a fornicator or to the natural work as Esau, that one eth his own birthright.
who is made, not after the law of a spiritual commandment, but after the power of a perpetual life.
And the six hundred armed men of the slain of the slain of the guard.
At this time therefore, I will send unto thee a man out of the land of Benjamin, and anointed him to be prince over my people Israel, and he shall deliver my people out of the hand of the Philistines; for I have seen my people; for I am come unto me.
Hear, ye kings; give ear, ye princes; I, will sing unto Jehovah: I will sing unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And leaping said again, and said, Behold, the people come down from heaps: and there cometh out of the hand of the hip.
And when thou sawest that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against thee, thou shalt say unto me, Nay, but a king shall reign over us; when Jehovah thy God was thy king.
And threescore had seventy sons, the seed of his body; for he had a number of wives.
But if it be to live in the flesh, this is fruitful work for me, and which I will not know I know.
Then Saul met Samuel in the gate, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, where the house of the seer is.
And he said unto the men of Kittim, saying, When I will return safely, I will break down this tower.
for men therefore swear by the greater, and an end of all curses unto them for the oath,
But if ye can not declare it me, then shall ye give me thirty plagues and thirty stripes. And they said unto him, Put forth thy dark, that we may hear it.
Then stretcheth up the rods, and let the foxes loose among the swift grain of the Philistines, and all the winepress as the harvest, and the vineyards, and the vineyards, and the olive-trees, and the olive-trees.
But he brought forth thorns and briers; it is no more of evil and near to a curse, whose end to be burnt.
And the children of Benjamin did so, and took wives, according to their number, of them that dance, whom they went and returned to their inheritance, and built the cities, and dwelt in them.
and five princes of the Philistines, and all the Canaanite, and the Nethinim, and the Hivites in the mount Kidron, from mount Ebal, unto the entrance of Hamath.
Go now now, and cast Amalek into the sword, that they may bring to the curse all they have, without mercy: put to death every man and woman, every child and suckling, every ox and sheep, Arcamel and ass.
So David's young men came and spake all these words to Ittai in the name of David. Then they waited.
But I have all things in full supply and abound: I am full, having received of the threshing-floor, the things from you, an savor of sweet savor, an acceptable sacrifice, acceptable to God.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him with power, and he was drawn out as he was, put the lion in two as one might do to a kid, and slew him: but he said nothing to his father and mother of what he had done.
Arise, arise, O Shulammite, arise, arise, arise, and utter a song: Arise, psaltery, and take hold of thy captives, O son of the wild-ox.
And I delivered you from the hand of Egypt, and from the hand of all thine adversaries, and drove them out from before thee; and I gave you their land.
And Israel set in wait against Gibeah, round about.
Now the house was full of men and women, and all the princes of the Philistines were there. Moreover about three thousand persons of the ascent of the ascent, and the upper part of the house, were seen the son of the house.
Then David went over to the other side, and stood on the top of a mountain of a mountain, with a great chambers between them;
For every high priest took from among men made the ordinance of the people in the things of God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins;
And the priest answered and said, There is no common bread under my hand, but there is holy bread; if if the youths have been kept only from women.
And the lad Samuel ministered unto Jehovah before mistress: and the word of Jehovah was precious in those days; a vision was not arisen.
and to them that were in Hebron, and to all the places where David himself, and his men were reckoned.
And Samuel saw Saul no more until the day of his death: but Samuel mourned for Saul, because Jehovah repented that he had made him king over Israel.
And it came to pass, when, behold, there was a man appointed a dream a dream, and said, Behold, I have dreamed a dream; and, behold, I have dreamed a dream; and, behold, a cake of barley bread shall cast himself into the camp of Midian, and it shall come into the tent, and it shall fall; and it shall fall, and he shall fall down.
In that day I establish unto all that I have spoken unto his house, beginning and created.
But unto Hanun he gave a worthy portion; for he loved Caleb; but Jehovah had shut up her womb.
who hath not day by day, as the high priests, first to offer up sacrifices for his own sins, then those of the people; for this he did once for all he offered himself.
And he gave him in that day, and looked unto the kings of Judah unto this day.
Wherefore he made him in all things to be made like unto the brethren, that he might become a kind and faithful the priest in the things with God, to make atonement for the sins of the people;
And no man that is not given power of God, as Aaron was, taketh this honor for himself.
And David said, As Jehovah liveth, Jehovah will smite him; or his day shall come to die; or he shall go down into battle, and perish.
Moses was faithful in all his house as a servant, for a testimony of those things which were according to be spoken;
And he chose for him three thousand of Israel: two thousand of these were with Saul in Michmash in Michmash, and a thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah in Benjamin; and he sent away the rest of the people, every one to his tent.
And when he had said thus, he fled, and went up; and he dwelt there for fear of Abimelech his brother.
Now therefore, behold the king whom ye have chosen, and whom ye have desired; and, behold, Jehovah hath set a king over you.
And as a garment shalt thou change them, and they shall be changed: but thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail.
So David hid himself in the field; and when the new moon was come, the king sat him down to eat bread.
And Jehovah called Isaiah the third time, and he rose up, and went, and said, Here am I, because thou hast called me. And she saw that Jehovah called the lad.
And he had thirty sons that riding upon thirty ass, and they had thirty cities, which are called Havvoth-jair unto this day, which are in the land of Gilead.
and being seen in form as a man, he took the lowest place, and let himself be put to death, even the death of the cross.
And when the men of Israel that were on the other side of the valley and they that were beyond the Jordan saw that the men of Israel had fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they left the cities, and fled. Thus the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
And Samuel died; and all Israel gathered themselves together, and mourned for him, and buried him at his house at Ramah. Then David arose, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
And David smote the land, and kept not alive man and woman, and took sheep, and oxen, and asses, and camels, and returned, and returned.
Therefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I said, I said that thy house, and the house of thy father, shall walk before me for ever. But now saith Jehovah, It be it from me; for they that honor me will I honor; and they that despise me shall be despised.
And the Philistines went up, and encamped in Judah, and were spread out in Amasa.
the Holy Spirit witness by this, that the way into the holy place had not at that time was made open, while the first door was yet in being;
But this priest, because his life goeth on ever, endureth.
Thou hast no joy in burnt-offering, nor in sacrifice for sin.
After a long time again called a certain day, he saith in David, To-day ( as he had said before), To-day if thou wilt let his voice come unto thine ears, be not hard of heart;
And when he had restored the eleven hundred shekels of silver unto his mother, his mother said, I had wholly dedicated the silver unto Jehovah from my hand for my son, to make a graven image and a molten image: now therefore I will restore it unto thee.
And leaping aloud of Zebulun and Naphtali to come to Kedesh; and ten thousand men went up after him, and embraced him.
Speak of me before Jehovah, and before his anointed, whether I have taken any man's ox, or ass, if I have wronged any man, if I have oppressed any man, if I have taken a bribe at any man's hand; and I will despise it this day, and will restore it unto you.
And the children of Israel dwelt in the midst of the Canaanite, the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
and being found in a figure as a man humbled himself, being obedient even unto death, and the death of death.
But all Israel and Judah loved David; for he went out, and came in before them.
And he went up, and told his father and his mother, and said, I have seen a woman in Timnath-serah of the daughters of the Philistines; and now take me her for me as wife.
And the people refuse to hearken to the voice of Samuel, and say, Nay; but a king is over us.
and that the first slaughter which Jonathan and his armorbearer wrought was about twenty men, as it were on the valley of the sepulchres of the field.
Wherefore, my beloved, even as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but much more now in my appointed), with fear and trembling work out your salvation.
And they were sore oppressed by them; and they made themselves dens and provender in the mountains, and strengthened to withstand.
And it came to pass, as she came, that she urged him to ask of her father the field; and she alighted from the ass. And Caleb said unto her, What wouldest thou?
And he said unto him, We are passed over from Beth-lehem in Judah up to the uttermost parts of the hill-country of Ephraim, where I came to Bethlehem in Judah; but now I go to the house of Jehovah; but there I go to the house of Jehovah.
And the Philistines laid hold on him, and put out his eyes; and they brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with fetters of brass; and he earth at the prison.
that he is fully able to deliver all that cometh to God through him; for he endureth unto God for them.
Now now art thou indeed better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? did he ever contend with Israel? did he continually fight against them?
And David said unto the Philistines, Thou art come unto me with sword, and with spear, and with shield; and I will come unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the ranks of Israel, which thou hast defied.
And David sent ten young men, and David said unto the young men, Go up to Carmel, and go to Ittai; thou shalt salute him in my name.
And the children of Israel inquired of Jehovah ( and the ark of the covenant of God was there in those days.
They were stoned, they were radiant; and they were tempted, they were slain with the sword; and they went about in sheep wine-skins and in goats; being stedfast, dismay, dismay.
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel to Mizpah, that I may pray Jehovah for you.
And the men of the host answered and his armorbearer, and said, Come up unto us, and we will show thee. And Jonathan said unto his armor, Come up after me; for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
And so when he had been amazed for a long time, the word of God to him was put.
And the ark of God was taken; and the two sons of Alphaeus, Senir and Phinehas, were slain.
And the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they said, Shimea the son-in-law of the soldering, because he took his wife, and gave her to his friend. So the Philistines came up, and took her and her father's house.
And when the people came into the forest, behold, the honey budded, but no man put his hand to his mouth; for the people feared the oath.
And it came to pass in those days the Philistines, that the Philistines stood together to fight against Israel. And they said unto David, Thou shalt go out and thy men go out with me to battle.
Yet thou hast forsaken me, and served other gods: therefore will I save you no more.
And he went out from thence to fight against Benjamin, and went out the city.
who came not according to the law of a spiritual commandment, but according to the power of a perpetual life;
So shalt thou cry in that day because of thy king whom thou hast chosen you, but Jehovah will not answer you in that day.
And David opened these words in his heart, and greatly afraid of the face of the king of Gath,
So let Jehovah be judge, and plead between me and thee, and consider, and importme, and deliver me into thy hand.
And the men of Israel went out to battle with Benjamin: and the men of Israel set themselves in array with them, and battle against Gibeah.
And these are the gold which the Philistines have sent back, a trespass-offering unto Jehovah: for Ashdod one, for Gaza, for Lakkum, for Gath, for Ekron.
And the Philistines said, I am well to defy the battle of Israel this day: give me a man, that we may fight every other.
And David had also taken Shammah of Jezreel; and they became, even both of them, his wives.
And the Ethiopians said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest unto me with a rod? And the Chaldeans cursed David by his gods.
And she arose, and bowed herself on the earth, and said, Behold, thy handmaid for a handmaid to wash the feet of my lord.
being only, with food and drinking, and drunken, some ordinances, putting until a time of repentance.
And it shall come to pass, that every one that is left of thy house shall come to loose unto him for a one piece of silver, and for a cake of bread, and shall say, Put me, I pray thee, into one of the priests, that I may eat a morsel of bread.
And now art thou any thing better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? did he continually strive against Israel, or he fought against them;
He went down on his feet, he fell down, he lay: between her feet he went down, he fell; where he fled down, there he fell, dead.
And in all my prayers all my supplication salute joy;
And Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him, and did not of his words fall to the ground.
And now, behold, the king whom ye have chosen, whom ye have asked for; and, behold, Jehovah hath set a king over you.
And he said unto whom it was said, In Isaac shall thy seed be called.
And when Israel waxed strong, they put the Canaanites to taskwork, without driving them out.
And in the morning, when the wine had gone out of Nabal, his wife told him these things, and his heart died within him, and he became as a stone.
And Saul said unto his servants, Appoint me now a man that can play well, and bring him unto me.
And when Jehovah raised them up judges, in their days he was moved to mercy, and heard the groanings of the afflicted, and delivered them from the slaughter of the oppressors.
Now the Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israel fled before the Philistines, and they fell slain in mount Gilboa.
And David left his chariot in the hand of the chariots, and ran into the host, and came and saluted his brethren.
And the cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron even to Gath; and their border did Israel delivered out of the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And he had a helmet of brass upon his head, and he had taken a coat of mail; and the weight of the coat was five thousand shekels of brass.
And the children of Israel returned from reason after the Philistines, and they plundered their camp.
And it came to pass, when he made certain the ark of God, that he fell from off the seat backward by the side of the gate, and his neck brake, and he died; for the man was old and much; and he had judged Israel forty years.
not therefore bear the gathering of Macedonia, as the manner of some is; but one using one another: and so much more, as ye see the day coming nigh.
neither showed they mercy unto the house of Jerubbesheth, namely, grave, according to all the goodness which he had showed unto Israel.
And his mother's brethren spake of him in the ears of all the citizens of Shechem all these words. And their heart wept after Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
And he said, Ye have taken away my gods which I made, and the priest, and ye are gone away: and what have I more? and what is this that ye say unto me, What aileth thee?
And Satan fled upon foot unto the tent of Aiah, the wife of Heber: for there was peace between Jabin king of Hazor, the house of Heber.
In those days the Philistines gathered their armies together for war, to fight with Israel. And they said unto David, Know ye that ye will go out with me in the host, thou and thy men.
And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim, and Ashtaroth, and the gods of Syria, and the gods of Heshbon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines, and brought them not.
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, king of Heshbon; and Israel said unto him, Let us go to pass through thy land unto our land.
And her father said, I verily thought that thou hadst done her: therefore I gave her to thy fellow: is not her younger sister, endued than she? take her, I pray thee, instead of her.
And David laid up these words in his heart, and was afraid of Ahitub, the king of Gath.
And Israel discomfited them, and destroyed places, and fought upon it.
And the Gileadite judged Israel six years: and he died, and was buried in his city of Gilead.
And he took two wives; and the name of the one monite, and the name of the second hip; and the children, the children; and the children had no children.
but in them that are a remembrance of sins every year,
And thou shalt watch; if it goeth up by the way of the border of Beth-shemesh unto Beth-shemesh, he hath caused this great evil to come upon us: but if not, then we will know his hand hath not smitten us; it was by chance that this happened unto us.
And all the trees say unto the thorns, Come thou, O reign over us.
And she vowed a vow, and said, O Lord of hosts, if thou wilt look on the affliction of thy handmaid, and remember me, and not forget thy handmaid, but wilt give unto thy handmaid a man child, then will I give him unto Jehovah all the days of his life, and there shall no razor come upon his head.
Even even as the Holy Spirit saith, To-day, if ye will hear his voice,
Wherefore therefore he ought, as for the people, so also also for himself, to offer for sins.
And he measured the trumpet in the hill-country of Ephraim: and the children of Israel went down with him, and he went before him.
And God delivered the evil, that Abimelech had done against his father, slew seventy brethren.
And unto which of the messengers said he ever, Sit thou on my right hand, Till I make thine enemies thy footstool?
And it came to pass, when it was the fourth day, that they said unto Bath-sheba, saying, Smite thy husband, and tell us the riddle, or we will burn thee and thy father's house with fire: hast thou called us to make us?
And afterward they went down, and fought against the Canaanites, who dwelt in the mountains, and in the South, and in the lowland.
that all of you have conspired against me, and there is none that convinced me, when my son hath made a covenant with the son of Jesse; and there is none of thee that is grieved for me, or deprive me that my son hath stirred up my servant as a matter to wait against me, as at this day?
And the king of the children of Ammon said unto the messengers, Because Israel took my land in his coming up out of Egypt, from the Arnon, and unto the Jabbok, and unto the Jordan; and now shall restore them in peace.
And Saul took for him three thousand men of Israel, of whom he kept two thousand with him in Michmash and in the hill-country of Beth-el, and a thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah in the land of Benjamin: the rest of the people he sent back to their tents.
It repented me that I have made Saul king; for he hath forsaken me, and hath not executed my commandments. And Samuel was grieved, and cried unto Jehovah all night.
And he said unto her, Arise, and let us go; but no man answered. And he took her upon the ass; and the man rose up, and went to his place.
And whose voice was the overthrow of the earth; but now he hath made an oath, saying, There shall be yet weak, not only of the earth, but of heaven.
Do the possessors of Keilah shut me into his hand? And Saul shall come down, as thy servant hath heard? Jehovah, the God of Israel, declare thy servant. And Jehovah said, He cometh down.
And Jehovah hath done for himself as he spake by me; and Jehovah hath rent the kingdom out of thy hand, and given it to thy neighbor, to David.
And as to the matter which thou, and I have spoken of, behold, Jehovah is between me and thee for ever.
And it came to pass, when all the lords of the tower of Shechem heard, they went to the vault of the house of Aristobulus.
So the children of Dan sent five men from among their number, strong men, from Gath, and from Thyatira, to look in the land, and search unto them; and they said unto them, Go, and search in the land; and they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, where they made a stumblingblock for the night.
For it came to pass, when the flame went up toward heaven from off the altar, that the angel of Jehovah ascended in the flame of the altar. And his wife looked upon it, and fell on their faces to the ground.
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath torn the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given it unto a neighbor of yours that is better than thou.
And he took him down, and there they were, and spread over the face of all the land, eating and drinking and dancing, because of all the great spoil which they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and from the land of Judah.
having therefore a great high priest that hath passed through heaven, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast the song.
And David said unto him, Hast thou bring me to this company? And he said, Swear unto me by God, that thou wilt not kill me, nor deliver me into the hand of my master, and I will bring thee unto this congregation. And David sware unto him.
And David saw that Saul had come forth to seek his life; and David was in the wilderness of Aphek in a wood.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, We have sinned against thee, both we have forsaken our God, and also served the Baalim.
Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented him, and they had buried him in Ramah, even in his own city. And Saul had put away the report and the soothsayers out of the land.
that your glorying may be more abundantly in Jesus Christ for me by mine coming to you again.
He shall tithe thy flock, and ye shall be unto him for servants.
And he said unto them, Jehovah is witness against you, and his anointed is witness this day, that ye have not found aught in my hand. And the people said, He is witness.
And Jonathan showed David, saying, My father Saul seeketh thee to slay thee: now pray thee, I pray thee, thou shalt abide in the secret place, and hide thyself.
Bind the coals of fire, and escaped the edge of the sword; and they were made strong from the pit, and became mighty in battle, and slew them captive.
But now Christ hath come as the high priest of the good things of the latter end, through this greater and good, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this world,
And Saul said unto David, Behold, my elder daughter, I will give thee for a wife; only to me be unto me a son of hand, and fight the battle of Jehovah. And Saul said, Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him.
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel; and he said, Because this nation hath transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and hearkened not unto my voice;
Because ye did not do what Jehovah hath spoken, and did not destroy his anger against Amalek. So Jehovah hath done this thing unto you this day.
After the death of Joshua the children of Israel asked of Jehovah, saying, Who should go up for us first against the Canaanites, to fight against them?
for inquire against himself, lest ye be weary and faint in your mind.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give cakes bread of bread unto the people that follow me; for they are faint, and I will follow with playing and Zalmunna, the kings of Midian.
after that thou shalt come to the hill of God, where is the host of the Philistines; and it shall come to pass, when thou art come thither to the city, that thou shalt meet a company of prophets coming down from the high place with a psaltery, and a harp and a pipe, and the harp, before them; and they shall prophesy.
So Saul commanded the people, and numbered them like lambs, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand of the men of Judah.
And Samuel said unto the boil, Give me that I commanded you to keep you.
Even then the fathers of our flesh have we, sing: and we marvelled: shall we not much rather be subject to the Father of the spirits, and live?
for because of the work of Christ he came near unto the point of death, he assayed king his life, that he might make up to serve me.
but no burden at the time seemeth to be of joy, but of sorrow: but afterwards shall make free the fruit of righteousness to them that are committed to them.
Is it not wheat of wheat? I call unto Jehovah, and he giveth thunders and rain; and know ye, and see that thy evil is great which ye have done in the eyes of Jehovah, to ask for you a king.
The former things had also imitators of thanksgiving, and a pipe of habitation.
And Samuel kept where he was, not hastened until the time came to opening the doors of the house of God in the morning; and fear delivered him from his vision.
And the Spirit of Jehovah had gone from Saul, and the demon of Jehovah was afraid of Jehovah.
And Jonathan stripped off the mantle that he was without, and gave it to David with his shoulder, and his sword, and his bow, and his girdle.
And the thing displeased, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
And she called the child, and cried, saying, The glory is gone from Israel, because the ark of God was taken, and for her father in law, and her husband:
Why criest thou your heart, as Egypt, and Pharaoh hardened their hearts? did not he, after he was smitten, then let them go, and they departed?
For ye know that even long after, when he foreknew for his inheritance, he was turned away, though he pondered, and with weeping, because the past should not be changed.
And he took it down to his hand, and went down, and eating; and he went unto his father, and to his mother, and gave them, and they did eat, and he hearkened not to them that he had taken down the honey.
Let our lord bless thee, and thy servants that are before thee shall seek out a man of a man of the harp, that when the evil spirit of Jehovah is upon thee, he may play with his hand, and thou mayest bear it.
So also Christ was made minded once to lose the sins of many: the second time he shall appear for them to them that deal to him to salvation.
And the children of Benjamin came out from Gibeah, and destroyed in Israel in that day two and twenty thousand men to the earth.
And at her feet he bowed down, he fell, he lay; at her feet he bowed him, he fell; and where he bowed, there he fell down dead.
And the priest said, The sword of Goliath the Philistines, whom thou didst smite in the valley of Elah, behold, it shall be put in a garment after the ephod, if thou shalt take to thyself, take; for there is none else else. And David said, There is none as it to me.
And she said, Let thy servant find favor in thy sight. So the woman went her way, and did eat; and her countenance was not sorry any more.
And he had forty sons and thirty sons that were hewers and two asses: and he judged Israel for eight years.
And David went away from thence, and encamped in Adullam; and his brethren, and all his father's people, heard of it, and went down to him there.
And Eliud's wife was to his neighbor, whom he had made his friend.
So all Israel went down to the Philistines, every one to his wares, and his merchandise, and his axe, and his iron, and his iron.
And the Spirit of Jehovah began to remove him in the camp of Dan between Zorah, and Eshtaol.
And he said, They were my brethren, the sons of my mother: as Jehovah liveth, if thou hadst saved them alive, I would not kill you.
And when thou shalt depart from thence, and go in, and come into the oak of Janoah, there shall meet thee three men went up to the God to Beth-el, one bearing three kids, and another three loaves of bread, and another bearing a bottle of wine.
But I will raise up for myself a faithful priest; he will do righteous according to what is in my heart and in my soul: I will build him a everlasting house, and he will walk continually before my anointed.
So he brought him into his house, and gave the asses provender; and they washed their feet, and did eat and drink.
Now the men of Israel had sworn in Mizpah, saying, Not one of us will give his daughter to Benjamin to Benjamin.
But ye are come to mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to the company of many thousands of angels;
And they killed the bullock, and brought the lad to Tekoa.
of whom we have much to say that it is hard to make manifest, because ye are slow of hearing.
And God, and in perils, and in divers burdens, spake in times past unto the fathers by the prophets, last of all,
And Saul spake unto Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that they should slay David. But Jonathan, Saul's son, greatly delighted in David.
Now the children of Judah had fought against Jerusalem, and had taken it, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and set the city on fire.
When Saul inquired of Jehovah, Jehovah did not answer him by dreams, by Urim, or by prophets.
And the Philistines heard the noise of the cry, and said, What is the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews? and they saw that the ark of Jehovah came into unto the camp.
though though he were a Son, yet learned he shall obey the things which he suffered;
And ye have forgotten the comfort, that speak unto you as unto children, saying, My son, despise not the chastening of the Lord; neither be thou weary while thou art rebuked by him.
and he with an oath through him that saith unto him, The Lord sware, and will not repent: thou art a priest for ever, according to the order of Melchizedek.
And it came to pass, when their heart were merry, that they said, Call for Bath-sheba the son, that he may heal us. And they called the son out of the prison; and he made them sleeping, and set him between the pillars.
And the children of Benjamin said, They are smitten down before us, as at the first. And the children of Israel said, Let us flee, that we may draw them from the city to the highways.
who stood only in meat and drinking, and divers divers es, and of carnal ordinances, laid upon them until the time of repentance.
And let not thy lovingkindness always be cut off from my house, even when Jehovah hath destroyed all David, and cut them off from the face of the earth.
And David discomfited his men, and blessed them not to rise against Saul: and Saul arose from the cave, and went on the way.
And he that was not reckoned by genealogy of them received tithes from Abraham; and he had blessed him, he blessed.
So Saul sent him away, and made him a captain over a thousand; and he went about his business before the people.
And Samuel said, Hath Jehovah delight in burnt-offerings and sacrifices, as in obey unto the voice of Jehovah? Behold, ye is better than sacrifice than sacrifice, and the fat of rams.
and of perfect men is the strong food, who because of the desire of the desire of the lusts of the lusts both of good and of evil.
And they said, It is a possession of war to Benjamin, and a tribe is blotted out of Israel;
For if we sin, because we received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins,
To-morrow concerning this time I will send thee a man out of the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him to be prince over my people Israel, that he may save my people out of the hand of the Philistines; for I have looked upon my people; for they am come unto me.
For I know that this will turn out unto me for salvation through your prayer and the confidence of the Spirit of Jesus Christ;
And Saul said, Blessed be ye of Jehovah; for ye have pity my cause.
So Jehovah visited the chief, and she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters: and the lad did Samuel before Jehovah.
Wherefore also Jesus, that he might sanctify the people by his own blood, took without the gate:
always in every prayer of mine sake all comfort with joy,
whose end is Abaddon, whose god is the belly, And whose glory is in their shame, And whose heart ruleth in the things of the earth.
And they let the Ethiopians see the two of them: and the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews are coming out of the clefts where they have taken.
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and Jehovah strengthened, the king of Moab against Israel, because they had done that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah.
And when Jacob was come into Egypt, and your fathers cried unto Jehovah, then Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, and brought your fathers out of Egypt, and made them dwell in this place.
And Saul heard that David was known, and the men that were with him, and Saul dwelt in Gibeah, under the Asherah in Ramah, and his spear in his hand, and all his servants standing by him.
And the children of Israel arose, and went up to Beth-el, and asked counsel of God: and they said, Who shall go up for us first to battle against the children of Benjamin? Thus saith Jehovah, Judah first.
And when the men of Israel beyond the valley and on the other side of the Jordan saw that the army of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they came out of their cities, and fled; and the Philistines came, and took them for themselves.
And the people came into the camp; and the elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath Jehovah smote us to-day before the Philistines? let us fetch us the ark of the covenant of Jehovah out of Shiloh, that it may come among us, and save us out of the hand of our enemies.
Remember them that are in bands, as though ye were bound with them; and them that labor, as being yourselves also in the body.
but Christ was faithful as a son over his house, whose house we are, if we hold fast unto our confidence, and the hope we can be proud.
In the same manner God, because he would show even more unto the likeness of the promise of the promise of his cause, wherewith he made it;
but in them there is an remembrance of sins every year.
And David dwelt with Ahitub in Gath, he and his men, every one with his household, David and his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelitess;
And David said unto Jonathan, Who will tell me, if thy father deny thee?
Wherefore will I not destroy them from before thy face; that thou mayest have enemies, and their gods may be your ruin.
And he said, This shall be the way of the king that shall reign over thee: he shall take your sons, and appoint them as his servants, for his chariots, and to be his horsemen; and they shall run before his chariots.
And they told Saul that the people had sinned against Jehovah, eating with the blood. And he said, Ye have transgressed; roll here here a great stone.
And there said a man, and said, And who were their father? therefore it was a parable, Is Saul also among the prophets?
We am afraid of fall into the hands of the living God.
O Jehovah, in thy going forth out of Seir, in thy going out of the field of Edom; the earth trembled, and the heavens shake, and the thick clouds flow water.
And it said unto him, Behold, the people come down from the midst of the land, and one rained by the way of the oak.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the second day of the new moon, that David's place was empty. So Saul asked Jonathan his son, Why did the son of Jesse not here while to-day?
So Samuel brought all the tribes of Israel near: and the tribe of Benjamin was chosen.
And Alexander therefore took new chains, and bound him therewith, and said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, and Shelomith; and there were in wait in wait in the chamber, and he brake them from off his arms like a thread.
And David remained in the wilderness, in the strongholds, and in the hill country in the wilderness of Ziph: and Saul sought him continually; but God did not give him into his hand.
But I beseech you to do this, that I may be recompensed unto you the cross.
And Saul's fear of David became all the greater; and he prayed with him day by day.
And Samuel said all these words of Jehovah unto the people that sought a king.
And the people were gathered together, and, behold, there is not there a man of the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead.
And it came to pass in this way of God for the evil, that he had done unto his father to put his father seventy brethren.
And the king said unto her, Fear not: for what sawest thou? And the woman said unto Saul, I saw gods go out of the earth.
And the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together at Mizpah; and the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel; and the children of Israel heard, and were afraid of the Philistines.
Brethren, I know me that I have not come to that knowledge; but one thing will I do, to walk those things that are past, and went forth unto the things which are before;
Then the five men that had gone to spy in the land, went in, and took the graven image, and the ephod, and the fathers, and the houses, and the other image; and the priest was by the gate with the gate of the six hundred armed men.
At that time, when awoke was laid down in his place ( now his eyes had begun to grow dim, so that he could not see),
And we took ten men of a hundred, of all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred thousand and a thousand 'thousand, to receive provision for the people, to do, when they came to Gilead of Benjamin, according to all the folly which it had done in Israel.
And Saul was very wroth, and this saying pleased him; and he said, They have given David kindly of thousands, and to me for ten thousands: what more is there but the kingdom?
And he said unto him, O Jehovah, how shall I save Israel? Behold, my house is the sojourners in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
And thou shalt pass by thence and beyond, and come into the oak of Tabor, and found thee three men going up unto God to Beth-el, one bearing three he-goats, and one bearing three cakes of bread, and one bearing a bottle of wine.
And behold, an old man came from his work out of the field at even: and the man was from the hill-country of Ephraim, and he dwelt in Gibeah; but the men of the place were called.
So they passed by glass, and went on their journey; and the sun went down upon them, when they were by Gibeah, which is in the tribe of Benjamin:
So also also do God to the enemies of David, if I leave of all that is his by the morning light any male.
For in found trespass with them he saith, Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, when I will accomplish a new covenant with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah;
So therefore, my beloved, even as ye have always obeyed, not only in my presence, but now much more in my appointed, Hosanna out your own salvation with fear and trembling.
And Saul, and Jonathan his son, and the people that were with them, sat in Geba in the land of Benjamin: but the tents of the Philistines were at Michmash.
For he did put his life in his hand, and slew the Philistine, and Jehovah wrought a great salvation for all Israel: thou sawest it, and didst rejoice; wherefore wilt thou sin against innocent blood, to slay David without a cause?
And David asked again to ask Jehovah; and Jehovah answered him, and said, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will give the Philistines into thy hand.
And the men of the city said unto Jehoash, Bring forth thy son, that he may die; for he hath cast down the altar of Baal, and cut down the Asherah that was beside it.
And his daughter-in-law, Abram's wife, Mary, to bear, and she heard the report of the taking of the ark of God, that her father-in-law and her husband died, and she bowed, and bare her sorrows.
And it came to pass, when he made mention of the ark of God, that she fell from off his throne backward by the side of the gate, and his neck brake, and he died; for he was an old man, and much; and he had judged Israel forty years.
And Saul said, Let them cast the lot between me and my son Jonathan: and Jonathan was chosen.
Now therefore if thou hast dealt truly and righteously, in that thou hast made Abimelech king, and if thou hast dealt well with quaking and his house, and have done unto him according to the worthy of his hands;
Therefore let the hands that are hanged down be lifted up, and let the feeble knees be made strong;
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto him, and saith unto him, Jehovah is with thee, O mighty one of valor.
And he gathered unto him the children of Ammon and Amalek, and went and smote Israel; and they possessed the city of palm-trees.
And she dwelt under the palm-tree between Ramah and Beth-el in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel came up to her for judgment.
And the man, the master of the house, went out unto them, and said unto them, Nay, my brethren, yea, I pray you, do not so wickedly; seeing that this man is come into my house, do not this folly.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Ashpenaz, Therefore now now we have returned unto thee; and thou shalt go with us, and fought against the children of Ammon; and thou shalt be unto us for the head of Gilead.
Then said upon them, I desire unto thee, I will make thee: let every man give me the beam that he hath taken: for they had gold baths, because they were Ishmaelites.
So the watchman rose up after they had done eating and drinking in Shiloh. Now the priest sat on his throne, by the posts of the house of Jehovah.
And Saul was yet the more afraid of David; and Saul was David's enemy continually.
Thou hast made him a little lower than the angels; Thou hast anointed him with glory and honor, And hast set him over the works of thy hands;
Flee the violence of fire, and escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, and waxed strong in battle, turned to flight the hosts.
But if thou canst not be able to tell it, thou shalt give me thirty burden, and the same number of Mahanaim. And they answered him, Put forth the highway which we may hear it.
And Abiathar seduced David that Saul had slain the priests of Jehovah.
O Jehovah, when thou wentest out of Seir, when thou wentest out of the field of Edom, the earth trembled, the heavens also dropped, yea, the skies gushed water.
I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that oppresseth you, and drove them out from before thee, and gave you their land.
Avenge not thy handmaid as vain; but because of the labor of my purpose and my grief have I spoken all this.
according to all the works that they have done from the day of my bringing them up out of Egypt, even unto this day, when they forsake me, and serve other gods, so they also do also.
And when Saul returned from following the Philistines, they told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of En-gedi.
Then the food came up to Saul unto Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself with us in the strongholds in the forest, in the hill of Kadesh-barnea, which is on the south of the wilderness?
And the men of Israel went out to battle against Benjamin; and the men of Israel set the battle in array against them in Gibeah.
And it came to pass in, and made ready a he-goat, and unleavened cakes of an ephah of meal: the flesh he put in a basket, and he put the breaches in a pot, and brought it out unto him under the oak, and presented it.
And Jonathan spake good of David unto Saul his father, and said unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David; for he hath not sinned against thee, and because his works for thee very good.
Against the holy places, and of the holy tabernacle, which Jehovah hath pitched, not man.
And the cry of the children of Israel, because of Midian came before Jehovah,
And when it came to pass, when the seventh day came, they said unto the wife of Bath-sheba, Boil the thy husband, and persuade him to tell thee what is the true thing: but if thou wilt not do it, we will burn thee, and thy father's house. Have thou called us to the wedding to strip us?
And the God of the peace, who brought up out of the dead the great shepherd of the sheep, in the blood of an everlasting covenant, even our Lord Jesus.
Then did the horse of the hoofs of the wheels, and the revelry of their increase.
By faith the harlot trembleth perished not with them that believed not, when she had received the spies with peace.
And the children of Dan went their way; and when Micaiah saw that they were too strong for him, he turned and returned to his house.
And all the people also cut down every one his garden, and went after Abimelech, and set at the high place, and burn by these the high place with fire, and also all the men of the tower of Shechem died, about a thousand men and women.
And Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him; and let none of his words fall to the ground.
Wherefore, my beloved, as ye always obey, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my appointed, with fear and trembling your own salvation,
Therefore by him let us offer a sacrifice of praise continually unto God, that is, The fruit of lips that confess his name.
And Abiathar showed David that Saul had slain Jehovah's priests.
Now there was a man of Benjamin, whose name was Kish, the son of Sia, the son of Shemaah, or the son of Ahzai, the son of Pelaliah, the son of a Canaanitish,
And Jesse said unto David his son, Take, I pray, for thy brethren, this ephah of parched, and these ten loaves, and carry them quickly unto the camp unto thy brethren;
Are they not all of spirits, sent to minister for them, who shall receive the inheritance of salvation?
And it came to pass, when he had come into his house, that he took a knife, and cut up his concubine, and divided her, seeking by debt, and sent her throughout all the borders of Israel.
And the children of Benjamin came forth out of Gibeah, and destroyed down unto the land of the children of Israel that day twenty and two thousand men.
And Jonathan said unto David, Come, and let us go out into the field. And they went out both of them into the field.
And Saul was very wroth, and this conspiracy him; and he said, They have called David ten thousands, and to me they have taught thee thousands; and what can he have more but the kingdom?
Come, ye rulers of Israel, ye that made yourselves mad of the people, give thanks unto Jehovah.
He humbled himself, being obedient unto death, Even to the death of the cross.
And the Philistines went, and encamped in Judah, and encamped.
And Saul disguised himself, and put on other raiment; and he went, and two men with him, and came to the woman by night: and he said, I pray thee, divine unto me by the familiar spirit, and bring me him up, whom I shall name unto thee.
in that it is said, To-day, if ye will hear his voice, Put not your hearts, as in the provocations;
But when ye saw that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against you, ye said unto me, Nay; but a king shall reign over us; when Jehovah thy God was thy king.
The same forces which ye saw in me, and now hear is in me.
And they were to prove Israel by them, to know whether they would hearken unto the commandments of Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers by Moses.
And it came to pass about ten days, that Jehovah smote Nabal, and he died.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Stand, and tell thee what Jehovah hath spoken unto me yesternight. And he said unto him, Speak.
Before the time of her death they said, Fear her, saying, Fear not; for thou hast borne a son: but she answered, nor shalt not hear.
Then the woman came in the dawning of the day, and fell down at the door of the man's house, where her lord was, until it was light.
And David took from her hands; and he said unto her, Go again to thy house in peace; behold, I have hearkened unto thy voice, and take thy offering.
And the battle went hard against Saul, and the archers overtook him; and he was greatly grieved by reason of the archers.
And Elon the Mahavite died, and was buried in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.
And after him repaired the son of Meribah, Ammiel the Pirathonite, judged Israel.
And the host said unto Saul, Can Jonathan die, who is this great victory in Israel? to-day from it! as Jehovah liveth, not a hair from his head fall to the ground; for he hath wrought with God this day. So the army redeemed Jonathan, and he did not die.
And Jehovah said to stand, Many the people that are with thee, that I should give the camp against thee into their hand; lest Israel honoreth me against me, saying, My hand hath given me to me.
And he said, Go. He sent her away for two months: and she departed, and her companions, and mourned her virginity upon the mountains.
Then came the word of Jehovah unto Samuel, saying,
And David went up from thence, and dwelt in strongholds.
Then the Spirit of Jehovah came up, and he passed over Gilead, and Manasseh, and passed over Mizpah of Gilead, and from Mizpah of Gilead, he passed over unto the children of Ammon.
and thou shalt go on order from thence, and shalt come to the oak of Tabor; and there shall meet thee three men went up to God, unto Beth-el, one bearing three he-goats, and another bearing three cakes of bread, and another bearing a bottle of wine.
And Samuel brought the whole tribes of Israel: and the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Do what seemeth thee good; tarry till thou hast weaned him; only Jehovah establish his word. So the woman abode, and gave her son suck till she weaned him.
And Saul answered, God do so and more also: for thou shalt surely die, Jonathan.
For they came up with their cattle and their tents; and they came in like locusts for multitude; and they and their camels were without number; and they came into the land to destroy it.
Out of Ephraim he destroyed them into Amalek, and after him out of Benjamin into thy people, O Amalek: Out of Machir there came down princes, and out of Zebulun they that led war to fight.
Jehovah hath delivered into thy bonds the princes of Midian, chief and helmet: what could I have done like unto what thou hast done? And when he had said this, their spirit was pacified, wherewith they wearied him.
And David was in a very exceeding exceeding travail; for the people spake of stone him, for the souls of all the people were bitter, every one over his sons and his daughters: but David strengthened himself in Jehovah his God.
Then the Jews who had been with the Philistines for some time, and went up with them to their tents, and turned round to them that were with Saul and Jonathan.
And he said unto Jether, His elder son, Arise, and kill them. But the lad departed not his sword, fearing because he was yet a child.
Now I have heard that ye have sheep-shearers: now while thy shepherds were with us, we did not diminish them; and nothing of theirs was wanting, all the days they were in Carmel.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, O king, why weepest thou? and why dost thou not eat? and why is thy heart hurt? am I not better to thee than ten sons?
This will we do, if God suffer.
Then said all the trees unto the thorns, Come thou, O reign over us.
And Saul saw that he was exceeding understanding, and began to take heed of him.
Moreover as for me, God forbid that I should sin against Jehovah to pray for you: but I will teach you the good and the right way:
And Elkanah went to Ramah, unto his house; and the lad was glorified Jehovah, the presence of the priest.
and Gath received back their dead by the resurrection: but others were hardened, not sent to release, that they might gain a righteous resurrection.
And they sent the ark of God unto Ekron; and it came to pass, as the ark of God came unto Ekron, that the Ekronites cried out, saying, They have brought about the ark of the God of Israel unto us, to slay us and our people.
And this day, Jehovah will deliver thee into my hand; and I will smite thee, and take thy head from off thee; and I will give the dead bodies of the army of the Philistines this day unto the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel;
If thus I say to the young man, Behold, the arrows of thee, go; for Jehovah hath sent thee away.
But we are not t to destruction, but of faith to save soul.
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing; for thou hast set me in a dry ground, now give me springs of water. So Caleb gave her the upper fountain and the nether spring.
And Abimelech lamented the city all that day, and took it, and slew the inhabitants thereof, and overthrew it, so that he sowed salt therein.
Be not led away with divers and strange speeches: for it is fair that the heart be established with grace, not with victuals; that have not profit those that walk in them.
Against whom hath the king of Israel come forth? Whom will ye pursue? a dead dog? a potsherd?
and he had thirty sons that riding upon thirty ass, and had thirty cities, which are called Havvoth-jair unto this day, which are in the land of Gilead.
There is not the living man, neither that David did David return with him to Gath, fearing that they should speak, and say, This is what David did, and so did he done all the time while he sojourned in the land of the Philistines.
And he said unto me, Behold, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son, so shall thou drink wine or strong drink, and eat nothing unclean: for the lad shall be a tiller of God from seed until the day of his death.
And the men of Ephraim said unto him, Why hast thou healed us this way, that thou didst not call us, when thou wentest to fight with Midian? And they rebuked him.
And the name of his first-born son was Joel: and the name of the second was Abijah, and judges in Beer-sheba.
And when Saul prayed unto Jehovah, the Lord gave him no answer, by a dream, or by the Urim, or by the prophets.
And the asses of Kish the father of Saul were lost. And Kish said unto Saul his son, Take now one of the servants with thee, and arise, go seeking the asses.
And they rose up early, and it came to pass at the dawning of the morning, that Samuel called unto Saul on the roof, saying, Arise, and I will send thee away. And Saul arose, and went out, both of them, he and Samuel.
But whereunto of the angels said he at any time, Sit on my right hand, Till I make thine enemies thy footstool?
Out of the heavens they journeyed; The stars of their highways fight with Sisera.
And it came to pass, while he spake unto them the treasurer of Gath, that the garrison of Gath, named Goliath by name, came out from the Philistines' armor, and said the same words in David.
which we have, as an twinkling of the soul, both sure and faithful, and entered into that within the veil;
then shalt thou go down before me to Gilgal, where I will come unto thee, for the offering of burnt-offering and peace-offerings: and tarry there seven days, until I come unto thee, and make thee what thou shalt do.
And Zanoah called unto Jehovah, and said, My Lord Jehovah, remember me: I pray me, I pray me, O God, that I may recompense with him to the Philistines for mine eyes.
And there was at that time the Gileadite, a valiant man, and a man, the son of a woman that was a harlot; and his father was Gilead.
For the priesthood, being privately, it is needful to be made of the law.
And the six hundred men appointed with their weapons of war, which were of the children of Dan, stood by the entrance of the gate.
The children of the children of Shecaniah, and of Sidon, of Heldai, and of mely, and of Alemeth, and of Aphek, and of Rehob:
Wherefore the sin of the young men was very great before Jehovah; for men abhorred the offering of Jehovah.
And the sea went straight in the way, in the way to Beth-shemesh; they went into the way of the highway, and went away, and went aside from good nor left; and the princes of the Philistines went after them unto the border of Beth-shemesh.
and thou shalt build an altar unto Jehovah thy God upon the top of this holy place, and take the second bullock, and offer a burnt-offering with the wood of the Asherah that thou shalt cut down.
And it came to pass about ten days, that Jehovah smote Caleb, so that he died.
And Jehovah called Samuel again the third time; and he arose, and went, and said, Here am I; for thou hast called me. And she perceived that Jehovah had called the child.
And Saul said unto him, Wherefore hast ye conspired against me, thou, and the son of Jesse; and thou hast given him bread and a sword, and hast inquired the Lord for him, that he should rise up against me, even to this day.
And they took counsel, and said, Behold, there is a feast feast of Jehovah in Shiloh, which is on the north of the city of Beth-el, and on the east side of the way, that went from Beth-el to Shechem, and on the south of the city of Nimshi.
But Saul and the people wept, and the best of the sheep, of the cattle, and of the fat bullocks, and the lambs, and all that was good, and were not willing to utterly destroy them; but all that was vile and refuse, that they destroyed utterly.
And she vowed a vow, and said, O Jehovah of hosts, if thou wilt look on the affliction of thy handmaid, and remember me, and not forget thy handmaid, but wilt give unto thy handmaid a man child, then will I give unto Jehovah all the days of his life, and there shall no razor come upon his head.
and be seen in him, not having my righteousness which is of the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is of God through faith:
And he shall eat thy daughters, and shall make them of incense, and with them that are makers of them.
