1 Paul, apostle of Jesus Christ by God's will, according to promise of life, the  which  in Christ Jesus,
2 to Timotheus,  beloved child: grace, mercy, peace, from God  Father, and Christ Jesus our Lord.
3 I am thankful to God, whom I serve from  forefathers with pure conscience, how unceasingly I have the remembrance of thee in my supplications night and day,
4 earnestly desiring to see thee, remembering thy tears, that I may be filled with joy;
5 calling to mind the unfeigned faith which [has been] in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and in thy mother Eunice, and I am persuaded that in thee also.
6 For which cause I put thee in mind to rekindle the gift of God which is in thee by the putting on of my hands.
7 For God has not given us a spirit of cowardice, but of power, and of love, and of wise discretion.
8 Be not therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner; but suffer evil along with the glad tidings, according to the power of God;
9 who has saved us, and has called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to  own purpose and grace, which  given to us in Christ Jesus before  ages of time,
10 but has been made manifest now by the appearing of our Saviour Jesus Christ, who has annulled death, and brought to light life and incorruptibility by the glad tidings;
11 to which *I* have been appointed a herald and apostle and teacher of  nations.
12 For which cause also I suffer these things; but I am not ashamed; for I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded that he is able to keep for that day the deposit I have entrusted to him.
13 Have an outline of sound words, which  thou hast heard of me, in faith and love which  in Christ Jesus.
14 Keep, by the Holy Spirit which dwells in us, the good deposit entrusted.
15 Thou knowest this, that all who  in Asia, of whom is Phygellus and Hermogenes, have turned away from me.
16 The Lord grant mercy to the house of Onesiphorus, for he has often refreshed me, and has not been ashamed of my chain;
17 but being in Rome sought me out very diligently, and found —
18 the Lord grant to him to find mercy from  Lord in that day—and how much service he rendered in Ephesus *thou* knowest best.