1 I testify before God and Christ Jesus, who is about to judge living and dead, and by his appearing and his kingdom,
2 proclaim the word; be urgent in season  out of season, convict, rebuke, encourage, with all longsuffering and doctrine.
3 For the time shall be when they will not bear sound teaching; but according to their own lusts will heap up to themselves teachers, having an itching ear;
4 and they will turn away their ear from the truth, and will have turned aside to fables.
5 But *thou*, be sober in all things, bear evils, do  work of an evangelist, fill up the full measure of thy ministry.
6 For *I* am already being poured out, and the time of my release is come.
7 I have combated the good combat, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith.
8 Henceforth the crown of righteousness is laid up for me, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, will render to me in that day; but not only to me, but also to all who love his appearing.
9 Use diligence to come to me quickly;
10 for Demas has forsaken me, having loved the present age, and is gone to Thessalonica; Crescens to Galatia, Titus to Dalmatia.
11 Luke alone is with me. Take Mark, and bring  with thyself, for he is serviceable to me for ministry.
12 But Tychicus I have sent to Ephesus.
13 The cloak which I left behind  in Troas at Carpus's, bring when thou comest, and the books, especially the parchments.
14 Alexander the smith did many evil things against me. The Lord will render to him according to his works.
15 Against whom be *thou* also on thy guard, for he has greatly withstood our words.
16 At my first defence no man stood with me, but all deserted me. May it not be imputed to them.
17 But the Lord stood with , and gave me power, that through me the proclamation might be fully made, and all [those of] the nations should hear; and I was delivered out of the lion's mouth.
18 The Lord shall deliver me from every wicked work, and shall preserve  for his heavenly kingdom; to whom  glory for the ages of ages. Amen.
19 Salute Prisca and Aquila, and the house of Onesiphorus.
20 Erastus remained in Corinth, but Trophimus I left behind in Miletus sick.
21 Use diligence to come before winter. Eubulus salutes thee, and Pudens, and Linus, and Claudia, and the brethren all.
22 The Lord Jesus Christ  with your spirit. Grace  with you.