1 And when he opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven for about half an hour. 
2 And I saw the seven angels who stand before God, and seven trumpets were given to them. 
3 And another angel who had a golden censer came and stood at the altar, and a large amount of incense was given to him, in order that he could offer the prayers of all the saints on the golden altar that is before the throne. 
4 And the smoke of the incense went up before God with the prayers of the saints from the hand of the angel. 
5 And the angel took the censer and filled it with the fire from the altar and threw it to the earth, and there were thunders and sounds and lightnings and an earthquake.
6 And the seven angels who had the seven trumpets prepared themselves in order to blow them.
7 And the first blew the trumpet, and there was hail and fire mixed with blood, and it was thrown to the earth, and a third of the earth was burned up, and a third of the trees were burned up, and all the green grass was burned up.
8 And the second angel blew the trumpet, and something like a great mountain burning with fire was thrown into the sea, and a third of the sea became blood, 
9 and a third of the creatures in the sea—the ones which had life—died, and a third of the ships were destroyed.
10 And the third angel blew the trumpet, and a great star burning like a torch fell from heaven, and it fell on a third of the rivers and on the springs of water. 
11 And the name of the star was called Wormwood, and a third of the waters became wormwood, and many people died from the waters because they were made bitter.
12 And the fourth angel blew the trumpet, and a third of the sun was struck, and a third of the moon, and a third of the stars, so that a third of them were darkened, and the day did not shine with respect to a third of it, and the night likewise.
13 And I looked, and I heard one eagle flying directly overhead, saying with a loud voice, "Woe, woe, woe to those who live on the earth, from the remaining sounds of the trumpets of the three angels who are about to blow the trumpet!"