1 "And to the angel of the church in Sardis write: "This is what the one who has the seven spirits of God and the seven stars says: 'I know your works, that you have a name that you are alive, and you are dead. 
2 Be on the alert and strengthen the remaining things that are about to die, for I have not found your works completed before my God. 
3 Therefore remember how you have received and heard, and observe it, and repent. If therefore you are not on the alert, I will come like a thief, and you will never know at what hour I will come against you. 
4 But you have a few people in Sardis who have not defiled their clothing, and they will walk with me in white, because they are worthy. 
5 The one who conquers in this way will be dressed in white clothing, and I will never erase his name from the book of life, and I will declare his name before my Father and before his angels. 
6 The one who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.'
7 "And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write: "This is what the holy one, the true one, the one who has the key of David, the one who opens and no one can shut, and who shuts and no one can open, says: 
8 'I know your works (behold, I have put before you an opened door that no one is able to shut) that you have a little strength, and have kept my word, and did not deny my name. 
9 Behold, I am causing those of the synagogue of Satan, the ones who call themselves Jews and are not, but are lying—behold, I will make them come and kneel down before your feet and acknowledge that I have loved you. 
10 Because you have kept the word of my patient endurance, I also will keep you from the hour of testing that is about to come upon the whole inhabited world, to put to the test those who live on the earth. 
11 I am coming quickly! Hold fast to what you have, so that no one may take away your crown. 
12 The one who conquers, I will make him a pillar in the temple of my God, and he will never go outside again, and I will write on him the name of my God and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem that comes down from heaven from my God, and my new name. 
13 The one who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.'
14 "And to the angel of the church in Laodicea write: "This is what the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the originator of God's creation, says: 
15 'I know your works, that you are neither cold nor hot. Would that you were cold or hot! 
16 Thus, because you are lukewarm and neither hot nor cold, I am about to vomit you out of my mouth! 
17 Because you are saying, "I am rich, and have become rich, and I have need of nothing," and you do not know that you are wretched and pitiable and poor and blind and naked, 
18 I advise you to buy from me gold refined by fire, in order that you may become rich, and white clothing, in order that you may be clothed and the shame of your nakedness may not be revealed, and eye salve to smear on your eyes, in order that you may see. 
19 As many as I love, I reprove and discipline. Be zealous, therefore, and repent! 
20 Behold, I stand at the door and knock! If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, indeed I will come in to him and dine with him, and he with me. 
21 The one who conquers, I will grant to him to sit down with me on my throne, as I also have conquered and have sat down with my Father on his throne. 
22 The one who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.'"