Moreover before the fat singed, the priest's servant would come and say unto the man that was offering the oblation Give me some of the flesh be baken with the priest; as he hath no savor for food baken in water, but would have ye give it uncooked.
And Saul and all Israel heard the words of the Philistine, were distressed and afraid.
And they pass over, and go over, and the sun goeth in upon them near Gibeah, which is to Benjamin
Then said Saul unto Jonathan Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan told him, and said, I did but taste a little honey, with the end of the rod that was in mine hand, and, lo, I must die.
Therefore Saul removed him from him, and made him a captain over a thousand men, and he went out, and came in unto the people.
David replied, "What have I done now? I asked a question! merely
sometimes being heard, exposed both to insults and to afflictions, and served sometimes sharers with them that were treated in this way.
When all the men of the tower of Shechem heard of it, they entered into the stronghold of the house of Elberith.
And Jephthah said unto them, I and my people were at great strife with the children of Ammon; and when I called you, ye delivered me not out of their hand.
And their purifications accomplished, ye not aside: for then should ye go after vain things, which cannot profit nor deliver; for they are vain.
For this, he must offer sacrifices for sins for the people, and unto himself.
He saith unto him, "We are passing from Bethlehem Judah to the beyond the side of the hill country of Ephraim. I am from thence, and I went unto Bethlehem Judah. I go unto Yahweh's house; and there is none that hath brought me into his house.
And Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Jabin, king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor; the captain of his host was Sisera, who dwelt in Harosheth of the Gentiles.
But all Israel and Judah, beloved David, for he went out, and came in before them.
There remains then a sabbatism to the inhabitants of God.
Awake, awake, Deborah: awake, awake, utter a song: arise, Barak, and lead thy captivity captive, thou son of Abinoam.
The raiders went out from the camp of the Philistines in three divisions. One course turned in the way to Ophrah, toward the land of Shual.
And Saul said, Thus shall ye say unto David, The king desireth not any dowry, but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be avenged of the king's enemies. But Saul heed to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines.
And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life:
And when he came, Eli sat by the way side; watching: and in his heart was afraid for the ark of God. And when the man came into the city, and told him, there was a great of my soul.
War came again, David went out, and fought against the Philistines, and defeated them thoroughly so that they fled before him.
We smote the south part of the country of the Cherethites, and upon the land which is Judah's, and on the south of Caleb; and we put Ziklag, with fire.
Yahweh sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor; the captain of whose host was Sisera, that lived in Harosheth of the Gentiles.
Who serve unto the instruction and shadow of heavenly things. as it was answer unto Moses, when he was to finish the tabernacle: Behold (saith he) that thou make all things according to the pattern which was shewn thee upon the mount.
And as they went up into the hill unto the city, they found young maidens going out to draw water, and said unto them, Is the seer here?
And inasmuch as it is not without an oath, (for the others indeed were made priests without an oath,
And Saul Jehovah, No man shall be killed this day, because Jehovah this day hath wrought salvation in Israel:
In those days, when there was no king in Israel, there was a certain Levite living upon the beyond the side of the hill country of Ephraim, that chose him a concubine out of Bethlehem Judah.
Shall the princes of Keilah deliver me into his hand? Will Saul come down as thy servant hath heard? O Jehovah, God of Israel, please tell thy servant!" And Yahweh said, "He shall come down."
Therefore,' declares Yahweh the God of Israel, 'though I solemnly said that thy house, and the house of thy ancestor would walked before me forever, but now,' declares Jehovah, 'far be it from me, for them that honor me I will honor, but they that despise me, I will treat with contempt!
and the Philistine looketh attentively, and seeth David, and despiseth him; for he was a youth, and ruddy, with a goodly appearance.
The king sat at his throne as before, the throne by the wall, and Jonathan arose, and Abner sat beside Saul, but David's place was empty.
But I trust in Jehovah that I also myself shall come shortly.
And she said, O my lord, as thy soul liveth, my lord, I am this handmaid who was making prayed unto Jehovah, and here by thy side,
And they stood every man in his place round about the camp; and all the host ran, and cried, and fled.
for also in Thessalonica once and even twice ye sent unto me for my need.
and so fearful was the sight, Moses said, I am afraid and full of trembling;) exceedingly
When David realized that Saul was gone forth to seek his life, David was in the wilderness of Ziph; at Horesh.
And it came to pass the next day, that the Philistines came to strip the slain, and they found Saul and his three sons fallen upon mount Gilboa.
And he took the elders of the city, and thorns of the wilderness and briers, and with them he taught the men of Succoth.
Behold, all ye, children of Israel, deliberate and give here counsel.
They found among the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead four hundred young virgins, who had not known man by lying with him; and they brought them unto the camp to Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
Grace be with you all. Amen.
The men of Israel went out of Mizpah, and pursued the Philistines, and struck them, until they came under Beth Kar.
The house of Joseph also went up against Bethel, and Jehovah was with them.
Now Anna spoke in her heart, and only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard at all. Heli therefore thought her to be drunk,
And Jephthah sent messengers unto the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What hast thou to do with me, that thou art come against me to battle in my land?
And Saul abode in the uttermost part of Gabaa under the pomegranates tree, which was in Magron: and the people that are with him were about six hundred men.
For to go against his commandments, is like the iniquity of them that use enchantments, and pride is like that they should not worship idols. Because thou hast put away from thee the word of Jehovah, he hath put thee from thy place kingdom.
Therefore I also have lent him unto Jehovah all the days of his life shall be lent unto Jehovah. And they adored Jehovah there. And Anna prayed, and spoken:
But when Jesus had made one oblation for sins for ever, he stood at the right hand of God;
But thou art come unto mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable multitudes of angels,
who, being in the likeness of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God:
The men of Ephraim were gathered together, and passed northward; and they said unto Jephthah, "Why didst thou pass over to battle against the children of Ammon, and didn't call us to go with thee? We will burning by thy house, around thee with fire!"
Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit that may abound unto thy sake,
And at that time, when Eli abode in his place, (now his eyes were become cast so that he could not see,)
Ye shall see the affliction of my habitation, in all the riches which I will give Israel; and there shall not be an old man in thy house, forever.
And the words, Yet shall one more, prove me there shall be a carrying away of those things which tremble as of things that are made, so that there may be except those things which no shook is one.
Be nothing solicitous; but in every thing, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let thy petitions be made known unto God.
just as also in another place he saith, "You are a priest forever according to the commandment of Melchizedek,"
And he took his army, and divided it into three companies, and laid ambushes in the field. And seeing that the people came out of the city, he arose and set upon them,
And they gave him seventy pieces of silver, out of the house of Baal-Berith, and Abimelech hired with them vain and wanton men, and they followed him.
Be mindful of them leading thee, that did speak unto you the word of God, that faith -- considering the issue the law -- be imitating,
Then Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, having three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
And Moses was faithful in all his house as a servant, for a testimony unto the things that were spoken,
And Yahweh said unto him, "But I will be with you, and ye shall defeat Midian as though they are one man."
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give bread, cakes to my people; for they are put to travail, and I go on after Zebah and Zalmunna, the kings of Midian.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kirjathjearim, saying, The Philistines have brought again the ark of Jehovah; come ye down, and fetch it up unto you.
that being effulgence of his glory and expression of his substance, and upholding all things by the word of his might, having made [by himself] the purification sins set himself down on the right hand of the greatness on high,
Forasmuch then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself likewise took part of the same; that through death he might destroy him that had the power of death, even the devil;
Then all the children of Israel went forth, and the congregation was gathered together as one man, from Dan even to Beersheba, with the land of Gilead, unto Jehovah in Mizpeh.
The descendants of Benjamin went out to meet the troops, and they lured them away from the city and began to inflict casualties upon the troops as before, upon the main way, one of that goeth up to Bethel, the other to Gibeah: and in the field there were about thirty men of Israel.
And the Philistines fought, and Israel was routed, and they fled every man to his tabernacle and there was a very great slaughter, and there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen.
And Samuel Jehovah: Like as thy sword hath made women childless, so shall thy mother be childless among women. And Samuel hewed him in pieces before Jehovah in Galgal.
But we cannot give them wives of our daughters, for the children of Israel have sworn, saying, Cursed be he that giveth a wife unto the Benjaminites!
But Christ being come a high priest of good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this corner;
And in like manner do thee rejoice and be a portion in my joy.
And Jehovah saith unto Samuel, `Till when thou art mourning for Saul, and I have rejected him from reigning over Israel? fill thy horn with oil, and go, I send thee unto Jesse the Beth-Lehemite, for I have seen among his sons for Myself a king.
For Jehovah will not cast away his people for his great name's sake; for it hath pleased Jehovah to make thee his people.
for thy partnership in furtherance of the Good The from the first day until now:
The servants of Achish said unto him, "Is not this David the king of the land? Is it not for this one that they sang in the dances, saying, 'Saul killed his thousands, but David his ten thousands?'"
that sketch and serve a shadow of the heavenly things, just as Moses was warned as he was about to finished the tabernacle, for he saith, "See to possess it, that thou make all that is according to the pattern which was shown to you on the mountain."
When he restored the money to his mother, his mother took two hundred pieces of silver, and gave them unto a silversmith, who made a engraved image and a molten image out of it. It was in the house of Micah.
And the children of Benjamin saw that they were struck; for the men of Israel yielded to Benjamin, because they trusted the ambushers whom they had set against Gibeah.
Saul was wroth, and this saying displeased him; and he device, "They have attributed to David ten thousands, but to me they have attributed thousands! What more can he have but the kingdom?"
Then David went to the other side and stood on the top of the mountain at a distance; which was great between them.
not according to the covenant which I sware unto their fathers in day of my taking their hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; because *they* did not continue in my covenant, and *I* did not regard them, saith Jehovah.
The Gazites were told, "Samson is come here," so they surrounded the place and lay in ambush for him all night at the gate. They kept city silent all night, saying, "We shall wait until the morning light, and then we will kill him."
And the Holy Spirit also bears us witness [of it]; for after that which was spoken:
But ye know his proven character, that as a child with a father he served with me for the gospel.
And the house of Joseph went up against Beth-el, and Jehovah was with them.
The word of Samuel came to all Israel. Now Israel went out against the Philistines to battle, and encamped beside Ebenezer; and the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Give us seven days, that we may send men to every part of Israel: and therefore if none come to our help, we shall come forth unto you.
Have moreover tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the world to come,
And when he had set the brands with fire, he let them go into the standing corn of the Philistines, and burnt up both the shocks, and also the standing corn, with the vineyards and olives.
Therefore they Jehovah, Who is thereof all the tribes of Israel, that came not up unto Jehovah to Maspha. And behold the inhabitants of Jabes Galaad were found not to have been in that host.
If ye endure chastening, God dealeth with you as with sons; for that which son is he whom the father chasteneth not?
So Saul said unto his servant, "Your counsel is a good one. Come, and let us go." And they went to the city which the man of God was.
Jonathan said unto the young man that bore his armor, "Come, let us go over to the garrison of these uncircumcised. It may be that Yahweh shall work for us; for there is no restraint upon Yahweh to save by the countries, nor by few."
They say unto him, "Behold, thou art old, and thy sons don't walked in thy ways. Now make us a king to judge us according to all his nations."
nor did they show favor to the house of Jerub-Baal (that is, Gideon) in accordance with all the good that he did for Israel.
And Jehovah spake unto Samuel: How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, whom I have rejected from reigning over Israel? fill thy horn with oil, and come, that I may send thee to Isai the Bethlehemite: for I have provided me a king among his sons.
And he took up the mouth-bone of an ass weaned dead, which he saw by chance upon the earth, he slew a thousand men with it.
And Gaal, the son of Ebed went forth, and stood at the gate of the city, then Abimelech and his people arose from the place where they had been waiting.
The Philistines were afraid, for they said, "God is come into the camp." They said, "Woe unto us! For there hath not been such a thing aforetime.
For if that first was faultless, place had not been sought for a second.
And Deborah and Barak son of Abinoam sang on that day:
Salute all thy leaders, and all the saints. They from Italy, salute you.
Jonathan climbed up upon his hands, and upon his feet, and his armor bearer after him: and they fell before Jonathan; and his armor bearer killed them after him.
If a man find his enemy, shall he let him escape alive? so shall ye be recompensed by Jehovah for that which thou hast done unto me this day.
And the Philistines were gathered together to war against Israel, three thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and an army of people as the sand of the sea of the covenant; they came up and encamped in Michmash, unto the east of Beth-aven.
And David girded his sword above his garment of divers colors and beginneth to go, for he hath not tried ; and David saith unto Saul, `I cannot go with these, for I had not tried;' and David turneth them aside from off him.
So Samuel returned after Saul; and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
I exhort Euodia, and exhort Syntyche, be of the same mind in Jehovah;
Now Saul came from the field, drive the oxen before him; and he said, Wherefore are the people weeping? And they told the men of Jabesh had said.
`Also now, station yourselves and see this great thing that Jehovah doeth before your eyes,
For every house is built by someone; but he that built all things; and Israel is God.
and Abdon, the son of Hillel the Pirathonite died, and was buried in Pirathon in the land of Ephraim, in the mount of the Amalekites.
And the men of Azotus seeing this kindness of plague, spoken: The ark of the God of Israel shall not stay with us; for his hand is heavy upon us, and upon Dagon our god.
serving nothing through envy or through the proud, but with low thoughts of self let every one take others to be better than lucre;
But thus saith we will do unto Gibeah: we will go up against it before Jehovah;
Thou shalt not increase speaking very proud words! Let no arrogance go forth from thy mouth, for Yahweh is a God of knowledge whose deeds are not weighed.
And Saul discerneth the voice of David, and saith, `Is this thy voice, my son David?' and David saith, `My voice, my lord, O king!'
And all Israel heard say that Saul had smitten a garrison of the Philistines, and that Israel also was had in abomination with the Philistines. And the people were called together after Saul to Gilgal.
And they struck Moab at that time, about ten thousand men, all strong and able men; none escaped.
for if that first were faultless, a place would not have been sought for a second.
Saul also went to his house to Gibeah: and the army was with him, that God had grave:
After this he loved a woman, that dwelt in the valley of Sorec, and she was called Dalila.
And said, Here am I; for thou didst Heli call me. Then understood that Jehovah called the child, and he said unto Samuel: Go, and sleep: and if he shall call thee any more, thou shalt write: Speak, Jehovah, for thy servant heareth. So Samuel went and slept in his stead.
The men of Israel were distressed that day; for Saul had adjured the people, saying, "Cursed is the man that eats any food until it is evening, and I am avenged of my enemies." So none of the people tasted food.
and shall eat the tenth of thy sheep: and ye shall be his servants.
When Eli heard the noise of the and cried out, he said, "What doeth the noise of this tumult mean?" The man hurried, and came and told Eli.
`Speak, I pray thee, in the ears of all the masters of Shechem, Which good for thou -- the rule over thou of seventy men (all the sons of Jerubbaal), or the rule over thou of one man? -- and ye have remembered that I thy bone and thy flesh.'
And Jehovah will also give Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow shalt thou and thy sons be with me; the host of Israel also will Jehovah give into the hand of the Philistines.
For the bodies of them thereof, whose blood is brought into the holy place by the high priest as an offering for sin, are burned outside of the camp.
The people said unto Saul, "Shall Jonathan die, who hath woven this great salvation in Israel? Behold, of my sorrow! As Yahweh lives, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground; for he hath linen: with God today!" So the people didn't rescued Jonathan that he die.
Please don't let my lord pay heed unto this worthless fellow, Nabal; for as his name is, so is he. Nabal is his name, and folly is with him; but I, thy servant, didn't see my lord's young men, whom thou sent.
And Eli said unto her, How long wilt thou be drunken? put away thy wine from thee.
And it came to pass, when Israel was strong, that they put the Canaanites to tribute, and did not utterly drive them out.
The trees went forth upon a time to anoint a king over them; and they said unto the olive tree, Reign thou over us.
For they verily gave us vengeance for a season, as it pleased them; but he doeth it for our nothing; that we may become holy as he is.
And just as it is destined for people to die once, and after this, judgment,
And the chief of all the people, even of all the tribes of Israel, presented themselves in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen that drew sword.
Thou must shall make you thy tumors and idols of thy mice that are ravaging the land, and thou must glorify the God of Israel. Perhaps he will lighten his hand upon thee and thy gods, and upon thy land.
And his mother's relatives spoke all these words concerning him unto all the lords of Shechem; and they who visiteth Abimelech for they said, "He is our relative."
And the people served Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders whose days were prolonged after Joshua, that had seen all the mighty works of Jehovah, which he had done for Israel.
Wherefore ye shall make idols of thy emerods, and idols of thy mice that mar the land; and ye shall give glory unto the God of Israel: peradventure he will lighten his hand from off thee, and from off thy gods, and from off thy land.
And after him came Jaare-oregim the Gileadite, who was judge over Israel for twenty and two years.
And Barak said unto her, If thou goest with me, then will I go, but if thou goest not with me, I will not go.
The children of Israel did that which was evil in Yahweh's Yahweh sight: and delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
But Samuel said, "How can I walk? If Saul hears, he shall kill me." Yahweh said, "You must take a heifer of the herd with you, and ye must say, 'I are come to sacrifice to Yahweh.'
Thou made him a little lower than the angels; thou gavest him a crown of glory and honor and set him over all the works of thy hand:
So they smote that day the Philistines from Machmas to Ailon. And the people were wearied exceedingly.
Who this poor body of ours shall be turned into the image of the body of his glory, according to the working whereby he is able to did subject all things unto himself.
And he said, Peaceably: I am come to sacrifice to Jehovah. Hallow yourselves, and come with me into the sacrifice. And he hallowed Jesse and his sons, and called them unto the sacrifice.
Jonathan therefore gave his branches unto the lad, and said unto him, Go, and carry them into the city.
Wherefore, my beloved and greatly pleasant brethren, my joy and thus crown; stand firm in Jehovah, beloved friends.
Now the first covenant had regulations to worship and the earthly sanctuary.
she shall not eat of anything that cometh of the vine, neither shall she drink wine nor strong drink, nor eat anything unclean: all that I commanded her shall she observe.
"The kings came, they fought; then the kings of Canaan fought; at Taanach by the waters of Megiddo, they received no plunder in silver.
But Barak followed the chariots and the host as far as Harosheth of the Gentiles; and all Sisera's host was put to the sword; not a man escaped.
And he brought him into his house, and gave unto the provender asses: and they washed their feet, and did eat and drink.
It is necessary therefore that the heavenly things patterns of should be cleansed with these: but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these.
So then please proclaim in the ears of the troops, saying, 'Whoever is fearful and trembling, let him return and depart from the mount of Gilead.'" Of twenty and two thousand troops returned, and ten thousand remained.
And David said to Abisai: Kill him not: for who shall put forth his hand against the Lord's anointed, and shall be guiltless?
And as Samuel was offering the burnt-offering, the Philistines came near for the up against Israel; but at the thunder of the Lord's voice that day the Philistines were astonished, and they gave way before Israel.
As faith Abraham offered a sacrifice of Isaac, when he was tried: and he with whom the covenant had been made gave up as an offering the only son of his body,
And David said, Thus saith Jehovah, that delivered me from the hold of the lion and the bear, So shall Deliver my soul from the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said unto David, Go! and Jehovah be with you.
And a man of Benjamin fled from before the battle and came to Shiloh, the same day with his clothes out of commandment and earth upon his head.
For as unto our own daughters we cannot give them, being bound with an oath and a curse, whereby we spoken: Cursed be he that shall give Benjamin any of his daughters to wife.
For thou both had compassion upon me in my bonds, Onesimus, and joyfully accepted the plundering of thy possessions, knowing that ye have you a better possession and an enduring one in the heavens.
And David said to Abigail Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, that sent thee this day to meet me.
The Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and encamped in Shunem; and Saul gathered all Israel together, and they encamped in Gilboa.
And Jehovah doth go up; saith, `Judah lo, I have given the land into his hand.'
But the olive said unto them, Shall I lay down my riches of oil, whereby men call upon God, and go and wave over the trees?
Furthermore I count all things to be but loss for the excellent knowledge of Jesus Christ my Lord; for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them that I may dung, but as gain Christ:
And David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice, and wept until they had no more power to weep.
and said unto him, Thus saith Jephthah, Israel took not away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon:
The princes of Soccoth answered: Peradventure the palms of the hand of Zebee and Salmana are in thy hand, and therefore thou demandest that we should give bread to thy host.
Now the Philistines had taken God's ark, and they brought it from Ebenezer to Ashdod.
Judah captured Gaza, and its territory, Ashkelon, and its territory, and Ekron, and its territory.
And the elders of the congregation said, How shall we do for wives for them that remain, seeing the women are destroyed out of Benjamin?
having circumcision on the eighth day, of the nation of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews; according to the law, a Pharisee:
Then Samuel told him of all things not. And he said, It is Jehovah; let him do that which seemeth him good.
And all this assembly shall know that Jehovah saveth not with sword, and spear: for the battle is the Lord's, and he will give thee into our hand.
Then Benjamin gathered them; and they gave them the women whom they had kept from death among the women of Jabesh-gilead: yet now there were not for them.
Brethren, I don't regard myself as yet having taken hold, but one thing I do. Forgetting the things that are behind, and reached to the things that are before,
And the women sung as they played, and they spoken: I Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten thousands.
I give thanks unto my God upon my every remembrance of you,
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We have sinned. Thou shalt thou unto us according to all that is good in thy sight; but deliver us, we pray thee, this day.
And David girded his sword upon his dress, and endeavoured should walk; for he had not yet tried . And David said unto Saul, I cannot go in these; for I have never tried . And David put them off him.
And Gideon cometh in unto the Jordan, passing over, he and the three hundred men that with him -- wearied, and pursuing,
Then Jesse called Abinadab, and made him pass before Samuel. And he said, Jehovah Neither hath chosen this one.
And when the demon from God came upon Saul, David took his instrument and made song: so new life came unto Saul, and he gathered well, and the demon went away from him.
So give not thy hope that shall be greatly rewarded.
And Abimelech abideth in Arumah, and casteth out Zebul Gaal and his brethren from dwelling in Shechem.
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go and smite the Philistines, and save Keilah.
And Jonathan said unto the young man that bare his armour, Come, and let us go over unto the garrison of these uncircumcised: it may be that Jehovah will work for us; for there is no restraint unto Jehovah to save by the countries, nor by few.
Now when David and his men came to Ziklag, on the third day, the Amalekite had raided the Negev and Ziklag. When they accused Ziklag, they burn it with fire.
And the youth cometh unto the place of the arrow which Jonathan hath shot, and Jonathan calleth after the youth, and saith, `Is not beyond the arrow thee?'
And he saith unto his youth, `Run, find, I pray thee, the arrows which I am shooting;' the youth is running, and he hath shot the full and to pass over him.
and they say unto Jephthah, `Come, and thou hast been unto us for captain, and we battle against the Bene-Ammon.'
Then the five men that had gone to spy out the country of Laish spoke and said unto their brethren, Do ye know that there is in these houses an ephod, and teraphim, and a graven image, and a molten image? And now ye know what to do.
And David came to Saul, and stood before him: and he loved him exceedingly, and made him his armourbearer.
Gideon came to the Jordan, and passed over, he, and the three hundred men that were with him, yet faint, pursuing.
If he is able to have a battle with me, and stricken me, then we shall minister unto thee: but if I am able to overcome him, then thou shalt be our servants and do work for us.
for we have not a chief priest could not sympathise with our infirmities, but tempted in all things in like manner -- apart from sin;
There is none holy as Jehovah; for there is none beside thee: neither is there any rock as our God.
Then all the Midian and the Amalekite and the children of the east assembled themselves together; and they passed over, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
And the children of Israel departed thence at that time, every man to his tribe and to his house, and they went out from thence every man to his inheritance.
And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, shall guard your hearts and thy thoughts in Christ Jesus.
Now unto God, and our Father be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
And the Philistines stood on a mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on a mountain on the other side, and there was a valley between them.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee: for thou hast put away from thee the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah hath put thee from thy place as king over Israel.
For whom Jehovah chastiseth; and he loveth, he scourgeth every son whom he receiveth.
And Achish believeth in David, saying, `He hath made himself utterly abhorred among his people, in Israel, and hath been to me for a servant age-during.'
The children of Israel came near, against the children of Benjamin the second day.
His father-in-law, the young lady's father, kept him there; and he stayed with him three days. So they drank, and ate and stayed there.
Now she had an ambush standing in the inner chamber. She saith unto him, "The Philistines are upon thee, Samson!" He broke the snare, as a string of tow is broken when it touches the fire. And his strength was not known.
And they were long time till they were ashamed, and seeing that no man opened the door, they took a key: and opened, they found their lord lying dead upon the ground.
So six hundred men of the Danites from Zorah, and Eshtaol, went out armed with instruments of war.
Therefore, my brethren, beloved and longed for, my joy and crown; so stand firm in Jehovah, my beloved.
Therefore now rise up early in the morning, with the servants of thy lord that are come with thee; and as soon as thou art up early in the morning, and have light, depart."
Grace with you all. Amen.
And Samuel taketh the vial of the oil, and poureth upon his head, and kisseth him, and saith, `Is it not because Jehovah hath appointed thee over His inheritance for leader?
And after that the oblation he sent away the people that were come with the thereof.
And so therefore listen unto their voice. Nevertheless thou must earnestly warn them; thou must explain unto them the custom of the king who shall rule over them."
Then Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren: and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David from that day forward: and Samuel rose up, and went to Ramatha.
And Samuel lay until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah. And Samuel feared to declare the vision to Eli.
And Saul said unto David, Thou art not able to go against this Philistine to battle with him: for thou art But a youth, and he a man of war, from his youth.
I also will not destroy the nations which Josue left hand, when he died:
and we know that they were not able to enter in by reason of unbelief.
And the children of Benjamin boldly issued out of the city, and seeing their enemies flee, pursued them a long way, so as to wound and kill some of them, as they had done the first and the second day, whilst they fled by two high places whereof one goeth up to Bethel, and the other to Gabaa, and they slew about thirty men:
And when Samuel had slain all the tribes of Israel shall come near the tribe of Benjamin, was taken.
And Abimelech sat down in Ruma: but Zebul drove Gaal, and his companions out of the city, and would not suffer them to abide in it.
and the people come in unto the forest, and lo, the honey ye not, thus and none is moved his hand unto his mouth, for the people feared the sware.
And they were not good to the house of Jerubbaal, that is, Gideon, according to all the good that he had done to Israel.
For they that say such things prove me they seek a country for themselves.
But I would ye should understand, brethren, that the things that happened unto me have fallen out unto the rather furtherance of the gospel;
This phrase, "Yet once more", signifies the removing of those things that are shaken, as of things that have been made, that those things which are not shaken may remain.
The kine went on, the way in the way to Beth Shemesh, on the one main way, lowing as they went. They did not turning aside to the right hand or to the left, and the princes of the Philistines were walking after them up to the border of Beth Shemesh.
And the men of Israel were joined together that day; and Saul adjured the people, voice, saying, Cursed be the man that shall eat bread until even, till I be revenged of my enemies. So none of the people tasted any food:
David went, and returned from Saul, to feed his father's flock at Bethlehem.
And for this cause he is mediator of a new covenant, so that, death having taken place for redemption of the transgressions under the first covenant, the called might receive the promise of the everlasting inheritance.
Jonathan answer Saul, "David earnestly asked permission of me to go to Bethlehem.
when David arose and went, he and his men, and smote of the Philistines two hundred men; and David brought their foreskins, and they delivered them in full unto the king, that he might be the king's son-in-law. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter to wife.
The one edge set on the north over-against Michmash, and the one on the south over-against Gibeah.
And David said, Shall the citizens of Keilah deliver up me and my men into the hand of Saul? And Jehovah said, They shall deliver up.
And he took the oblation unto Eglon, king of Moab, that was a very fat man.
And Nahash the Ammonite saith unto them, `For this I covenant with thee, by picking out unto you every right eye -- and I have set it a reproach upon all Israel.'
Know ye that our brother Timothy is set at liberty: with whom (if he come shortly) I will see thee.
Fulfill ye my joy, that ye may be of one mind, having the same charity, being of one accord, agreeing in sentiment.
For it is God, that works in thee both to shall and to work for his good will.
For the countries, walk, of whom I have told you often (and now tell thee weeping), that they are enemies of the cross of Christ;
then shall that which cometh forth from the door of my house to meet me, when I return in peace from the children of Ammon, be Jehovah's, and I will offer it up for a burnt-offering.
Then Manue took a kid of the flocks, and the libations, and put them upon a rock, oblation unto Jehovah, that doth wonderful things: and he and his wife, as one on.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people rose early, and built there an altar, and offer burnt sacrifices and peace sacrifices.
and it hath been in the morning, about the rising of the sun, rise early, and dost thou hast cast against the city; and lo, he and the people that with him go out unto thee -- and thou hast done unto him as thy hand doth find.'
And Saul goeth on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on the other of the mountain, and David is hastened to go from the face of Saul, and Saul and his men are compassing David and his men to catch them.
And he sent messengers into all Manasses, and they also followed him: and other messengers into Aser and Zabulon and Nephtali, and they came to meet him.
Then all the inhabitants of the tower of Shechem, heard of it, and went into the inner chamber of the house of El-berith.
and they place his weapons the house of Ashtaroth, and his body they have set on the wall of Beth-Shan.
And the spectacle was so terrifying that Moses said, "I am terrified and trembling."
Therefore we should give heed more abundantly unto the things [we have] heard, lest by any means I we should slip away.
And the three hundred cried blast with their horns, and every man's sword, by Jehovah against his brother throughout all the host; and the army was scattered as far as Beth-shittah toward Zeredah, unto the border of Abel-meholah by Tabbath.
Then answer mischief, O the Edomite; that was set over the servants of Saul, and said, I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.
The burden of the golden earrings that he they asked him was one thousand and seven hundred shekels of gold, besides the crescents, and the pendants, and the purple, garments that was upon the kings of Midian, and besides the bonds that were about their camels' necks of them.
And Samson went to Gazah, and found a harlot, and went in unto her.
Let us then sacrifice of thanks to God always through him, that is to say, the fruit of lips bearing witness unto his name.
Then Delilah said unto Samson, Behold, thou hast been and despised me with a perverse mouth; therefore thus shalt thou say verily how shall ye be put in bands?
For it is God, that worketh in thee, both to shall and to accomplish, according to his good will.
This is the token for you, that shall come regarding thy two sons Hophni and both Phinehas: they shall die in one day!
And we know that they could not enter in by reason of unbelief;)
And he returned to Ramah, because his house was there, and there he judged Israel, and he built an altar unto Yahweh there.
Now therefore hear, I pray thee, my lord the king, the words of thy servant: If Jehovah stir thee up against me, let him accept of sacrifice: but if the sons of men, they are cursed in the sight of Jehovah, that have cast me out this day, that I should not dwell in the inheritance of Jehovah, voice, saying, Go, serve foreign gods.
That I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being made conformable unto his death,
And the princes of the Philistines gave her seven new bow-cords which had not been made dry, and she bare them saith Jehovah; knotted round about him.
Then came the woman in the And rose of the day, and fell down at the door of the man's house where her lord was, until it was light.
And the asses of Kish Saul's father were lost; and Kish said unto Saul his son, Accept, I beseech thee, I pray, one of the young men with thee, and arise, go seek the asses.
And Samuel took a little vial of oil, and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Behold, Jehovah hath anointed thee to be prince over his inheritance, and thou shalt deliver his people out of the hand of their enemies, that are round about them. And this shall be a sign unto thee, that God hath anointed thee to be prince.
but after the second veil a tabernacle which is called Holy of holies,
But he, when he had offer one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down on the right hand of God;
If thou send back the ark of the God of Israel, send it not away empty, but render unto him what ye owe for sin, and then ye shall be healed: and ye shall know why his hand departeth not from thee.
Then said Saul unto his armourbearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me through therewith; lest these uncircumcised come and thrust me up, and abuse me. But his armourbearer would not; for he was sore afraid. Therefore Saul took a sword, and fell upon it.
Please, let our lord command thy servants that are before you. Let them seek a man skilled in The pleasant the lyre. When the demon from God is upon thee, he can play upon it, and thou shalt feel better."
And the Spirit of Jehovah began to out him at Mahaneh-Dan, between Zoreah and Eshtaol.
Yet they didn't listen their judges; for they prostituted themselves unto other gods, and bowed themselves down unto them. And they turned aside quickly out of the way which their fathers walked, obeying Yahweh's commandments. They didn't do so.
And on the morrow after the new moon, that is, the second day, there was yet none in David's down: and Saul said unto his son Jonathan Wherefore hath the son of Jesse not come to the feast yesterday or to-day?
And the men of Ashdod, know that [it is] so, and have said, `The ark of the God of Israel doth not abide with us, for hard hath been His hand upon us, and upon Dagon our god.'
And after ten days had passed, Jehovah struck Nabal, and he died.
Now the name of the man was Nabal: and the name of his wife was Abigail. And she was a prudent and very comely woman; but her husband was churlish, and very bad and sick natured: and he was of the house of Caleb was Achsah.
They shall perish, but *thou* continuest still; and they all shall grow old as a garment,
Then came up me, to Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself with us in strong holds in the wood, in the hill of Hachilah, which is on the south of Jeshimon?
And he said to David, Thou art more righteous than thou; for thou hast recompensed me good, whereas I have recompensed thee evil.
And Saul said unto Ahiah, Bring hither the ark of God. For the ark of God was at that time with the children of Israel.
and both straw and provender are for our asses, and also bread and wine there are for me, and for thy handmaid, and for the young man with thy servants; there is no lack of anything.'
And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, saying, What shall we do with the ark of Jehovah? tell us wherewith we shall bring it to its place.
For he longed after you all, and was filled with heaviness, because that ye had heard that he had been sick.
And Gaal the son of Obed came with his brethren, and went over to Sichem. And the inhabitants of Sichem taking courage at his presence;
As faith, even Sarah herself received power to conceive, and she bore a child when she was former age, counted him since she faithful that had promised.
See that ye refuse not him that speaks. For if they did not escape that had refused him that uttered the oracles upon earth, much more we that turning away from him [who doeth so] from heaven:
Now Hannah, she spake in her heart; only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard: therefore Eli heed she had been drunken.
And his friend answered and said, This is of a truth the sword of Gideon, the son of Joash the men of Israel: into their hands God hath given up all the host of Midian.
Woe is unto us! Who shall deliver us from the hand of these great gods? These are the gods that sent all manner of stripes upon the Egyptians in the wilderness.
and make straight paths for thy feet, and that which is lame cannot be dislocated, but rather be healed.
And Jehovah came and said as before, Samuel, Samuel. Then Samuel answered, Speak process of Jehovah; for the ears of thy servant are opened.
Then Saul went down to the wilderness of Ziph, and three thousand of the choice men of Israel, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
The mountains quivered before Jehovah, before Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And Samuel dieth, and all Israel are gathered, and mourn for him, and bury him in his house, in Ramah; and David riseth and goeth down unto the wilderness of Paran.
by which shall we have been sanctified through the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
Now there was a man from the servants of Saul in that day, detained before Jehovah, whose name was mischief, O the Edomite; the chief of Saul's shepherds.
And their bones they put in the earth with a tree in Jabesh; and seven days they took no food.
and if thus they say, `Come up against us,' then we have gone up, for Jehovah hath delivered them into our hand, and this unto us the sign.
And Gideon realized that he was the angel of Yahweh; and Gideon said, "Oh, my lord Yahweh! For now I have seen the angel of Yahweh face to face."
Or else wouldn't they have ceased to be offered, because the worshipers, having been once cleansed, had not had more consciousness sins?
in order to try Israel by them, whether they are feeding the way of Jehovah, to walk in it, as their fathers kept or not.'
But he, because he lives forever, hath his priesthood unchangeable.
And we know that they could not enter in, because of unbelief.
God also bearing them witness, both with signs and wonders, and with divers miracles, and gifts of the Holy Ghost, according to his own will?
And they indeed for a few days, according to their own will, instructed us: but he, for our nothing; that we might receive his sanctification.
And he was judge of Israel in the days of the Philistines for twenty years.
Then went Abimelech to Thebez, and encamped against Thebez, and took it.
And the Philistines went up, and encamped in Judah, and spread themselves in Lehi.
David therefore, and his men went to Ceila, and fought against the Philistines, and brought away their cattle, and made a great slaughter of them: and David saved the inhabitants of Ceila.
Then Samuel took the vial of oil, and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Is it not because Jehovah hath anointed thee prince over his inheritance?
Then they pleasant him to consult Jehovah, that they might know whether their journey should be prosperous, and the thing should be confirmed.
Then Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, and three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
And Abimelech returned to Arumah; and Zebul sent Gaal and his brethren away, and would not let them dwell in Shechem.
And Gilead captureth the passages of the Jordan to Ephraim, and it hath been when [any of] the fugitives of Ephraim say, `Let me pass over,' and the men of Gilead say unto him, `An Ephramite thou?' and he saith, `No;'
and into the second, once in the year, only the chief priest, not apart from blood, which he doth offer for himself, and the iniquity of the people,
of doctrine of washings, and of imposition of hands, and of resurrection of dead, and of eternal judgment;
And it cometh to pass, when their heart glad, that they say, `Call for Samson, and he doth play before us;' and they call for Samson from the house of bondage, and he playeth before them, and they cause him to stand between the pillars.
Let thy gentleness be known unto all men. Jehovah is at hand.
It is like unto me if I am become a reproach or honoured; everywhere and in all things I have the mystery of how to be full and how to fast? how to have riches and how to want.
For thy communication in the gospel of Christ from the first day until now.
And it came to pass while Saul spoken unto the priest, that the noise which was in the camp of the Philistines journeyed and multitude; and Saul said unto the priest, Withdraw thy hand.
And it came to pass the same night, that the Lord said unto him, Take thy father's young bullock, even the second bullock of seven years old, and throw down the altar of Baal, that thy father hath, and cut down the grove that is by it:
They came to their relatives at Zorah, and Eshtaol, and their relatives said unto them, "What do ye report?"
And David smote them from the twilight even unto the evening of the next day: and there escaped not a man of them, save four hundred young men, that rode upon camels, and fled.
And when Jehovah raised up to them judges -- then was Jehovah with the judge, and saved them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the sentence come forth from it repenteth Jehovah, because of their groaning from the presence of their oppressors, and of them thrusting them away.
since it would have been needs suffer the countries, and times from the foundation of the world, but now he hath appeared once at the end of the ages for the removal of sin by the sacrifice of himself.
And again the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, worshipping the Baalim and Astartes, and the gods of Syria and the gods of Sidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines; they forsook the Lord and were servants to him not.
And all the people standing, answer as by the voice of one man: We will not return unto our tents, neither shall any one of us go into his own house:
Then the commanders of the Philistines said, "What are these Hebrews doing here?" And Achish said unto the commanders of the Philistines, "Is this not David the servant of Saul, the king of Israel, who hath been with me for days and years, I have not found anything threatening on him from the day of his desertion until this day!"
Then the woman came to Saul and absolutely realized that he was terrified, so she said unto him, "Look, thy female servant hath obeyed thee, and I have risked my life. I have listened unto thy words that thou hast spoken unto me.
And they said, Arise, and let us go up against them; for we have seen the land, and behold, it is very good; And ye are still! Be not slothful to go, to enter to take possession of the land.
The men of Gibeah rose against me, and surrounded the house by night. They intended to kill me, and they raped my concubine, and she is dead.
Now I rejoice in Jehovah exceedingly, that now at length thy anxious for me hath flourished again, as thou didst also think; but ye were busied.
The name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam the daughter of Ahimaaz and the name of the commander of his host was Abner the son of Ner, Saul's uncle.
and testify unto us also doth the Holy Spirit, for after that He hath said before,
For in that he himself hath suffered being tempted, he is able to help them that are tempted.
Now David was the son of that Ephrathite of Bethlehem-Judah whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons; and the man was old in the days of Saul, advanced [in years] among men.
So Anna arose after she had eaten and drunk in Silo: And Heli the priest sitting upon a stool, before the door of the temple of Jehovah:
Nay, my sons, the report is not good that I am heard the inhabitants of Yahweh spreading.
Thou shalt not according to selfish ambition or according to empty conceit, but in humility considering one another better than yourselves,
And he answer them: Are not thou the men that detestable me, and cast me out of my father's house, and now ye are come to me constrained by necessity?
And he said, This is my sin: but will honoreth me now before the heads of my people and before Israel, and return with me that I may serve Jehovah your God.
And he turned his law before them, and feigned himself mad in their hands, and scrabbled upon the gates of the gate, and let his spittle fall down upon his beard.
He said, "Why doth my lord pursue his servant? For what have I done? What evil is in my hand?
and having been made perfect, he did become to all them obeying him a save age-during,
and David pursueth, he and four hundred men, (and two hundred men stand yet that have been too faint to pass over the brook of Besor),
For if we keep the substance of the faith which we had at the beginning thereof; even until the end, we of the glory of Christ;
And when the Sidonians the Amalekites, and David and the Maonites oppressed thee, thou cried out unto me, and I delivered thee from their hand.
And Jonathan said, Far be it from thee: for if I knew surely that wicked were determined by my father to come upon thee, then would not I tell it thee?
Then the Philistines went up, and encamped in Judah, and spread themselves in Lehi.
And Samuel said, How shall I walk? if Saul hear , he shall kill me. And Jehovah said, Take a heifer with thee, and say, I am come to sacrifice to Jehovah.
And her husband Elkanah said unto her, Thou shalt as it seemeth right unto you, but not until thou hast borne him from the breast; only Jehovah do as he hath said. So the woman, in readiness gave her son milk until he and was taken from the bosom.
And he said unto him, What is thy name, that, if thy word shall come to pass, we may honor thee?
He had a son, whose name was Saul, an impressive young man; and there was not among the children of Israel a better person than he. From his shoulders and upward he was taller than any of the people.
where your fathers tried me by proving me, and saw my deeds forty years.
The Lord be merciful unto me, that I extend not my hand upon the Lord's anointed. But now take the which is at his head, and the cup of water, and let us go.
And she said, Let thine handmaid find favor in thy sight. And the woman went her way, and did eat, and her countenance was no more sorry.
When ye go, ye come in unto a people confident, and the land large upon both hands, for God hath given it into thy hand, a place where there is no lack of anything that in the land.'
Seeing it remaineth that some are to enter into it, and they unto whom it was first preached, did not enter because of unbelief:
Then the Philistines came up, and encamped in Judah, and they overran Lehi.
And company send there twelve thousand men of the sons of valour, and command them, saying, `Go -- and ye have smitten the inhabitants of Jabesh-Gilead by the mouth of the sword, even the women, and the infants.
Wherefore, my brethren, beloved and longed for, my joy and crown; so stand ye in Jehovah, beloved.
therefore the priests of Dagon, and all they coming into the house of Dagon, tread not on the threshold of Dagon, in Ashdod, unto this day.
He thinking she was taking her rest, said unto her: Arise, and let us be departure. But as she made no answer, perceiving she was dead, he took her, and laid her upon his ass, and returned to his house.
And Michal Saul's daughter beloved David; and they told Saul, and the thing pleased him.
And Saul said, Then speak unto David, The king refuseth to any bride-price, but for the a hundred Philistines that the king may be too strong for his enemies. But it was in Saul's mind that David should die by the hand of the Philistines.
Not that I seek gift, but I seek fruit abounding unto thy sake,
but the Amorites, would dwell in mount Heres, of Aijalon, and in Shaalbim. Yet the hand of the house of Joseph prevailed, so that they went subject to cast labor.
And he went every year about to Bethel and to Galgal and to Masphath, and he judged Israel in the aforesaid places.
Nay, my sons, for it is no good report that I hear: ye make Jehovah's people transgress.
So that we may boldly say, Jehovah is my help, and I will not fear what man shall do unto me.
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking unto Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David, and Jonathan beloved him as his own soul.
And Othniel, the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother of Caleb, took it: and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
But the men would not hearken unto him: so is the man took his concubine, and brought her forth unto them; and they knew her, and abused her all the night until the morning: and when the day began to spring, So they let her go.
And the Galaadites secured the fords of the Jordan, whereby Ephraim was to return. And when any one of the number of Ephraim came thither in the away, and spoken: I beseech thee, let me pass: the Galaadites said unto him: Art thou not an Ephraimite? If he spake unto them: I am not:
So the three bands all cried blast with their horns, and when the vessels had been broken, they took the fiery branches in their left hand, and the trumpets in their right hand, ready for blowing, crying out, For Jehovah and for Gideon.
For as Yahweh lives, that saves Israel, though it is in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die." But there was not a man among all the people that answer him.
And Jehovah spake unto Samuel, Hear the voice of the people, and they prophesy unto you: they have not forsaken thee; but they have forsaken me, not willing me to be king over them.
And they sat down together, and ate and drank. And the father of the young woman said unto his son in law: I beseech thee to stay here to day, and let us make merry together.
And David sware moreover, and said, Thy father surely knoweth that I have found favor in thine eyes; and he saith, Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved: but indeed as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is but a step between me and death.
And it cometh to pass, in the fleeing of Abiathar son of Ahimelech unto David, to Keilah, an ephod came down in his hand.
And Saul and all the people that are with him were gathered together, and drew nigh unto them: and every man's the sword, and the man upon his thigh, and there was a very great noise.
Which we have as an anchor of the soul, sure and firm, and which entereth in even within the veil:
I speak not as it were for want. For I have learned, in whatsoever state I am, to be content therewith.
and gather themselves unto him do every man in distress, and every man that hath an exactor, and every man bitter in soul, and he is over them for head, and there are with him about four hundred men.
[Let your] conversation without love of money, satisfied with present circumstances; for *he* hath said, I will not leave thee, neither will I forsake thee.
So Jehovah made Israel sure that day; and the battle went over to Beth-aven.
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon; and Israel said unto him, Let us pass, we pray thee, through thy land into my place.
And Jahel went forth to meet Sisara, and said unto him: Come in unto me, my lord, come in, fear not. He went in unto her, tent, and being cover her with a cloak,
And the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked; and, behold, the multitude melted away, and they journeyed beating down one another.
For having been prove himself, he is able to help others when they are tempted.
how much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without defect unto God, cleanse thy conscience from dead works to serve the living God?
And he saith unto him, `Far be my sorrow! thou dost not die; lo, my father doth not do anything great or small and doth not uncover mine ear, and wherefore doth my father hide from me this thing? this is not.'
that through faith conquered kingdoms, accomplished justice, obtained that which was promised, shut the mouth of lions,
Then David said, "Do not do so, my brethren, with that which Yahweh hath given unto us, who hath preserved us, and delivered the troop that came against us into our hand.
And when the lad was gone, David rose out of his place, which was towards the south, and fell on his face to the ground, adored thrice: and kissed one another, they wept together, but David more.
And the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin, and lo, the multitude hath melted away, and it goeth and is beaten down.
Saul watched David from that day and forward.
And above it were the cherubim of glory overshadowing the lovingkindness throne, which it is not now cannot speak in detail.
then it shall be, that whatsoever proceedeth out of the gates of my house to meet me, when I return in peace from the children of Ammon, it shall be Yahweh's, and I will offer it up for a burnt offering."
concerning instead only eat and drink, and diverse washings, regulations of outward things imposed until the time of setting things right.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people went out into the field; and they told Abimelech.
He took a lad of the men of Soccoth: and he asked him the names of the princes and ancients of Soccoth, and he described unto him seventy and seven men.
When Ehud, had finished presenting the tribute, he sent away the people that carried the tribute.
And the Philistine said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest unto me with staves? And the Philistine devoted David by his gods.
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, after the death of Aod,
They said, "We will most them," and they spread out a garment, and every one threw there an ornamental ring of his plunder.
And the kine took the crooked ways, by the way to Beth-shemesh; they went by the highway, not to the right hand or to the left, and the sound of their voices, knew upon the way; and the lords of the Philistines followed them even unto the border of Beth-shemesh.
Then all the children of Israel, and all the people went up, and came to Bethel, and wept, and sat there before Jehovah, and fasted that day until even; then they offer burnt sacrifices and peace sacrifices before Jehovah I
And they said, "Look, the annual feast of Yahweh is in Shiloh, which is on the north of Bethel, east of the main way that goeth up from Bethel unto Shechem, and south of Lebonah.
whose end destroy, whose God is the belly, and that speak in their shame, the ones that think upon earthly things.
And she called the child Ichabod, saying, The glory is departed from Israel: because the ark of God was taken, and because of her father in law and her husband.
Saul built an altar unto Jehovah I This was the first altar that he built unto Jehovah I
And the children of Benjamin said, They are mortgaging way before us, as at the beginning. But the children of Israel said, Let us flee and gather them away from the city, into the highways.
And they gave Hebron unto Caleb as Moses commanded him, and took the land of the three sons of Anak: drive them out from thence.
And he commanded the men whom he had commanded, saying, Thus shall ye say to all the men of Israel Hath ever a shameful as this been done from the day that the children of Israel came forth out of Egypt unto this day? Consider it, with if ye give What it.
And Saul said unto that Michal Why hast thou deceived me so, and sent away mine enemy, that he is escaped? And Michal answer Saul, He said unto me, Let me go: why should I kill thee?
and Phinehas the son of Eleazar the son of Aaron stood before it in those days), saying, "Shall I yet more go forth to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I cease?" Yahweh said, "Go up; for to-morrow I will deliver him into thy hand."
But the children of Belial said, How shall this man save us? And they despised him, and brought no presents. But he held his peace.
And Samson said unto them, Let me now propound a riddle unto thee; if ye clearly explain it unto me within the seven days of the feast, and find out beneath, then will I give thee thirty shirts, and thirty changes of garments.
having a golden censer, and the ark of the covenant covered about on every part with gold, wherein was a golden pot that had manna, and the rod of Aaron that had blossomed, and the tables of the testament.
Let thy gentleness be made known unto all people. Jehovah is at hand.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he judged Israel, and went forth to war; and Jehovah delivered Chushanrishathaim king of Mesopotamia, into his hand; and his hand prevailed against Chushanrishathaim.
And David cometh in unto the two hundred men that were too faint to go after David, and whom they cause to abide at the brook of Besor, and they go out to meet David, and to meet the people that before him; and he approacheth the people, and asketh of them of welfare.
And Barak said unto her, If thou shalt go with me then I will go; but if thou shalt not go with me I will not go.
And we may say that in Abraham, even Levi, that is worthy to take the tenth portion, gave it;
She called the lad Ichabod, saying, "The glory hath departed from Israel," referring unto the capture of the ark of God, and concerning her father-in-law and husband.
And she said, "The glory hath departed from Israel, because the ark of God was captured."
She saith unto him, "My father, thou hast opened thy mouth to Yahweh; do unto me according to that which hath proceeded out of thy mouth, because Yahweh hath taken vengeance for thou upon your enemies, even upon the children of Ammon."
And ye are risen up against my father's house this day, and have slain his sons, threescore and ten persons, upon one stone, and have made Abimelech the son of his maidservant, king over the men of Shechem, because he is thy brother;)
And the next day Saul set the people in three divisions. And they came into the midst of the camp at the early morning watch and struck down the Ammonites, until the fierceness of the day. It happened that the remainder were scattered so that no two among them remained together.
And he turned from him to another, and spoke after the same manner; and the people answer him again after the former manner.
and David runneth and standeth over the Philistine, and taketh his sword, and draweth it out of its sheath, and putteth him to death, and cutteth off with it his head; and the Philistines know that their hero dead, and flee.
Because his heart was with you all, and he was greatly troubled because ye heard that he was sick:
And the princes in Issachar were with Deborah; And Issachar, like Barak; They were sent into the valley at his feet. In the courses of Reuben there were great resolves of of good courage.
But God clave an cave place that was in the jaw, and there came water thereout; and when he had drunk, his spirit came again, and he revived: wherefore he called the name thereof Enhakkore, which is in Lehi unto this day.
For they verily for a few days chastened us after their own pleasure; but he for our nothing; that we might be partakers of his holiness.
Then Samson went down unto the woman, and made a feast there, according to the custom among young men.
As faith he celebrated the passover and the sprinkling of the blood, that the destroyer of the firstborn should not toucheth them.
also to appoint for himself heads of thousands, and heads of fifties; also to plow his plowing, and to reap his reaping; and to make weapons of his war, and weapons of his charioteer.
And Jonathan saith, `Far be it from thee! for I surely do not know that the evil hath been determined by my father to come upon thee, and I do not declare it unto thee.'
Holding forth the word of life unto my glory in the day of Christ, because I have not run in vain, nor laboured in vain.
And Jephthah came to Mizpeh, unto his house, and, behold, his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels and with dances: and she was his only child; beside her he had neither son nor daughter.
Now these are the nations which Jehovah kept in the land to trying Israel by them, all they that had not known, all the wars of Canaan;
Now Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel were in the valley of Elah power with the Philistines.
for I am pressed by the two, having the desire to depart, and to be with Christ, for it is far your doings,
thou hast subjected all things under his feet. For in subjecting all things unto him, he hath left nothing unsubject unto him. But now we see not yet all things subjected to *him*,
And Jonathan saith unto David, `What doth thy soul speak? -- and I do it for thee.'
And he took Agag the king of Amalek alive, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword.
Now there was no smith found throughout the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make them swords or spears.
I will raise me up a faithful priest, that will do according to that which is in my heart and will speak. I will build him a sure house; and he shall walked before my anointed forever.
David took these words seriously and felt severely threatened by Achish the king of Gath.
And the messenger of Jehovah putteth forth the end of the staff which in his hand, and cometh against the flesh, and against the unleavened things, and the fire goeth up out of the rock and consumeth the flesh and the unleavened things -- and the messenger of Jehovah hath gone from his eyes.
for nothing be anxious, but in all by prayer, and by supplication, with thanksgiving, let thy am be made known unto God;
Now the Philistines fought against Israel: and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
And behold, my father, Yea, see the skirt of thy garments in my hand. For in that I cut off the skirt of thy garment, and killed thee not, know and know that there is neither evil nor transgression in my hand, and I have not sinned against thee; yet thou liest in wait for my life to drink it.
And I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy unto you shortly, that I also may be of good exhort, when For I know the things concerning thee.
Therefore I hope to send him at once, as soon as I see how it shall go with me.
`And I shoot three of the arrows at the side sending out for myself at blemish;
And he judged Israel, three and twenty years, and he died, and was buried in Shamir.
Let thy moderation be known unto all men. Jehovah is at hand.
Now where there is a remission of these, there is no more an oblation for sin.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; and Jehovah raised up a Redeemer unto the children of Israel, who saved them, Othniel, the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
So I ought to take anxious for you all in this way, because I have you in my heart; for in my bonds, Onesimus, and in my oppositions before the judges thee the gospel, while he that it is faithful, ye know all thy portion with me in grace.
Ye -- not multiply ye speak haughtily -- The old saying goeth out of thy mouth, For a God of knowledge Jehovah, And by He actions are weighed.
make thee perfect in every good work to do his will, doing in thee that which is well-pleasing before him, through Jesus Christ, to whom the glory -- unto the ages of the ages! Amen.
The house of Joseph also went up against Bethel, and Yahweh was with them.
For ye had compassion of me in my bonds, and took joyfully the spoiling of thy goods, knowing in yourselves that ye have in heaven a better and an enduring substance.
As they were making their heart merry, behold, the men of the city, certain base fellows, surrounded the house, beating at the gate: and they spoke unto the master of the house, the old man, saying, "Bring out the man that came into thy house, that we can lie with him!"
For a covenant of violence when men are dead, since it is in nothing of violence while the testator is alive.)
In those days was there no king in Israel; there was a man, a Levite, that dwelled as a foreigner in the remote areas of the hill country of Ephraim. And he chose him a concubine from Bethlehem in Judah.
Thus was Midian subdued before the children of Israel, that they lifted up their heads not a vessel more. And the country was in quietness forty years in the days of Gideon.
Now the appointed sign between the men of Israel and the ambushers was that they should make a great cloud of smoke rise up out of the city.
And Samuel riseth early to meet Saul in the morning, and it is declared unto Samuel, saying, `Saul hath come in unto Carmel, and lo, he is setting up to himself a monument, and goeth about, and passeth over, and goeth down to Gilgal.'
The Levite, the husband of the murdered woman, answer and said, "I came to Gibeah, which belongs to Benjamin, I and my concubine, to spend the night.
So all of Benjamin that fell on that day were five and twenty thousand sword-wielding men; all of these were mighty men of valor.
Now the God of peace, that brought up from the dead our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of the ram, by the blood of the everlasting covenant,
And he asked them, "Why commit ye all these things that I am hearing, namely, your evil dealings with all these people?
Now therefore if ye have done worthily, and perfect in appointing Abimelech king over you, and have dealt well with Jerobaal, and with his house, and have made a suitable return for the benefits of him, that fought for you,
And when these signs come unto you, know that exact which they offer thee; for God is with thee.
And another went toward Beth-horon: and another went by the hill despise the valley of Zeboiim, toward the wilderness.
And I chose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to go up to my sitar, and burning incense unto me, and to wear the ephod before me: and I gave unto thy father's house of all the sacrifices of the children of Israel.
They indeed of the sons of Levi that receive the priest's office have a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law, that is, of their brethren, though these shall go forth from the body of Abraham,
Therefore said I, The Philistines shall come down now upon me to Gilgal, and I have not made supplication unto Jehovah: I cast myself therefore, and offer a burnt thereof.
And Gideon said unto them, I would desire a certain thing of you: give me every man the earrings of his booty; for they had golden earrings, because they were Ishmaelites.
And it is hath declared unto Saul that David fled to Gath, and he hath not added any more to seek him.
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy unto thee soon, that I also may be cheered up when For I know how ye are doing.
The Levite was content to dwell with the man; and the young man was unto him as one of his sons.
And the Ashdodites rise early on the morrow, and lo, Dagon is fallen upon the face to the earth, before the ark of Jehovah; and they take Dagon, and put it back to its place.
And they rose up in the morning, early, and worshiped before Jehovah, and returned, and came to their house to Ramah. Then Elkanah knew Hannah his wife; and Yahweh remembered her.
Is not this David, of whom they sang one to another in dances, saying, Saul smote his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
Just as the ancient proverb saith, 'From the wicked, wickedness goeth out,' but my hand shall not be against you.
and with blood almost all things are purified according to the law, and apart from blood-shedding remission doth not come.
And there ran a man of Benjamin out of the battle, and came to Shiloh, the same day, with his clothes rent and with earth upon his head.
With his own company, assaulting and besieging the city: whilst the two other companies chased the enemies that were scattered concerning the field.
Then Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren: and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David from that day forward. And Samuel rose up, and went to Ramah.
"Go down ahead of me to Gilgal; and behold, I will come down unto you, to sacrifice burnt sacrifices, and to offer sacrifices of peace sacrifices. Wait seven days, until I come unto you, and show thee what thou shalt do."
having become so much better than the messengers, as he did inherit a more excellent name than they.
If one man sins against another, God will judge him; but if a man sins against Jehovah, who will intercede for him?" Notwithstanding, they didn't listen unto the voice of their father, because Yahweh intended to kill them.
`Lo, here thou; testify against me, over-against Jehovah, and over-against His anointed; whose ox have I taken, and whose ass have I taken, and whom have I oppressed; whom have I bruised, and of his hand, I taken a ransom, and hide mine eyes with it? -- and I restore to you.'
As faith they did pass through the Red Sea, as through dry land, which the Egyptians having received a trial of, both were swallowed up;
And Israel was greatly impoverished because of Midian. And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah.
Galaad rested beyond the Jordan, and Dan applied himself to ships: Aser dwelt in the sea shore, and abode in the havens.
There is an old saying, From the godless man shall evil: but my hand shall not lift up against thee.
Saul therefore sent his guards to David's house to watch him, that he might be killed in the morning. And when Michol David's wife had told him this, voice, saying, Unless thou thyself this night, to save morrow wilt thou die,
David and the people that were with him, lifted up their voices, and wept till they had no more tears.
So that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace, and in all other places;
And all the men of Israel rose up from their places and took up ordering in Baal, Tamar; and the ambush of Israel charged from their places, from the vicinity of Gibeah.
and behold, and behold, if the daughters of Shiloh, come out to dance in the dances, then come out of the vineyards, and each man catch his wife of the daughters of Shiloh, and go to the land of Benjamin.
And they send and gather all the princes of the Philistines, and say, `Send away the ark of the God of Israel, and it turneth again unto its place, and it doth not kill us -- and our people;' for there hath been a deadly destruction throughout all the city, exceeding heavy hath the hand of God been there,
And he said unto the men of Succoth, give, I pray thee, loaves of bread to the people that follow me, for they are faint; and I am pursuing after Zebah and Zalmunna, kings of Midian.
lest watching [there be] any one that lacks the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness That leapeth up affliction , and the countries, and be defiled by it;
And that man hath gone up out of his city from time to time to bow himself, and to sacrifice, before Jehovah of Hosts, in Shiloh, and there two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas priests unto Jehovah.
and the Philistine unto David, `Come saith unto me, and I give thy flesh to the fowl of the heavens, and to the beast of the field.'
Now we will do this thing, if God will, us.
Moreover the word of Yahweh came to Samuel, saying,
by faith the walls of Jericho did fall, having been surrounded seven days;
He spoke also to the men of Penuel saying, "When I come again in peace, I will break down this tower."
`Ask thy young men, and they declare unto thee, and the young men find favor in thine eyes, for on a good day we have come; give, I pray thee, that which thy hand findeth, unto thy servants, and to thy son, to David.'
Now go and strike Amalek, and utterly destroy all that they have, and kill don't spare them; but both man and woman, infant and nursing baby, ox and sheep, camel and donkey.'"
lest [there be] any fornicator, nor profane person, as Esau that for one flour sold his birthright;
And when the inhabitants of Jabesh-Gilead heard that the Philistines had done to Saul,
For I have no man so of the same mind, that with sincere affection is solicitous for you.
Then said unto him, Where is now Zebul thy mouth, wherewith thou saidst, Who is Abimelech that we should serve him? is not this people that thou hast despised? go out, I pray now, and battle with them.
But over the Ashurites, dwelt among the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land: for they did not drive them out.
As faith Moses, when he had become great, refused to be called son of Pharaoh's daughter;
And Jephthah voweth a vow unto Jehovah, and saith, `If Thou dost at all give the Bene-Ammon into my hand --
After he had gone, his servants came and saw that the gates of the upper chamber were locked. They said, "Surely he is covered his feet in the upper room."
Wherefore also there have been born of one, and that of one become dead, even as the stars of heaven for multitude, and as the countless sand which by the sea shore.
Saul said, "Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and let us plunder them until the morning light, and let us not leave alive a man among them." So they said, "Do all that is good in thy eyes." But the priest said, "Let us draw near unto God here."
And he answer them: What could I have done as to that which thou hast done? Is not one bunch of grapes of Ephraim better than the vintages of Abiezer?
But certain worthless fellows said, "How save this man could us?" They despised him, and brought him no present. But he held his peace.
And David said unto Achish, If I have now found favor in thine eyes, let them give me a place in some city that is in the field, that I may dwell there: for why should thy servant dwell in the royal city with thee?
But ye have done well in communion of my affliction.
It shall be that in the morning, as soon as the sun is up, ye shall rise early, and rush upon the city. Behold, when he and the people that are with him come out against thee, then canst thou do unto them, as thou shall find occasion."
And Gideon said unto him, Ah my Lord, if Jehovah be with us, why then is all this befallen us? and where are all his miracles that our fathers told us of, both saying, Did not Jehovah bring us up from Egypt? And now Jehovah hath cast us off, and given us into the hand of Midian.
And to them that were in Hormah, and in Bor-ashan and in Athach;
These are the nations that Yahweh left, to prove Israel by them (that is, to prove all them that had not experienced any of the wars of Canaan,
Now therefore what seest thou hast at hand? Give me five loaves of bread, or whatsoever is here."
He asked her water, and she called his milk, and offer him butter, in a dish fit for princes.
In times past the word of God came unto our fathers through the prophets, in diverse parts and in diverse ways;
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, "Go up with me into my allotment, and let us battle against the Canaanites; then I too shall go with thee, into thy allotment." And Simeon went with him.
And he entered into the land of the Hittites, building a city called it and there Luz: which is the name unto this day.
They went up and encamped at Kiriath Jearim in Judah. Therefore they called this place Camp of Dan unto this day; it is west of Kiriath Jearim.
Then Saul said, "I have sinned. Return, my son David; for I will no more do ye harm, because my life was precious in thine eyes this day. Behold, I have played the fool, and have erred exceedingly."
And their wings were they fled to the rock of Rimmon in the wilderness: and upon the highways five thousand of them were cut off by the men of Israel, who thrust upon hard after them to Geba, slew two thousand more.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Jephthah, The Lord be witness between us, if we do not so according to thy words.
The priest answer David, and said, "There is no ordinary bread here at hand; there is only showbread, but if the young men have kept themselves from women."
Then Jonathan and David made a covenant together, because of Jonathan's love David.
And the men of Kirjath-jearim came, and fetched up the ark of Jehovah, and brought it into the house of Abinadab, upon the hill, and hallowed Eleazar his son to keep the ark of Jehovah.
So Christ also did not glorify himself, that he might be made a high priest: but he that said unto him: Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee.
Know ye that our brother Timothy is set at liberty; with whom, if he come shortly, I will see thee.
And when he had made an end to offer the present, he sent away the people that bare the present.
When all that knew him before saw that, behold, he prophesied with the prophets, then the people said one to another, "What is this that is come to the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?"
but ye shall also not cut off thy kindness from my house forever; no, not when Yahweh hath cut off every one of the enemies of David from the surface of the earth."
And she called his name of Ichabod, saying, The glory is gone from Israel: because the ark of God was taken and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
and David taketh the whole of the flock, and of the herd, whether they have led on before these cattle, and they say, `This David's spoil.'
Then the Philistines assembled and came and encamped at Shunem, so Saul assembled all Israel, and they encamped at Gilboa.
For they could not endure that which was commanded: "If even an eat any touches the mount, it must be stoned."
But if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, but break his voice, then the hand of Jehovah shall be against thee, and against thy king for thy destruction, as it was against your fathers.
Now the hand of Yahweh was heavy against the Ashdodites and he destroyed them, and struck them with tumors, both in Ashdod, and its territories.
So the whole army cut down each one branch for himself, and followed Abimelech and they put them against the vault and set the vault ablaze with fire upon them toward the house that all the men of the tower of Shechem died, about a thousand men and women.
And the men of the city say unto Joash `Bring out thy son, and he dieth, because he hath broken down the altar of Baal, and because he hath cut down the shrine which by it.'
And as they went down in the end of the city, Samuel said unto Saul: Speak unto the servant shall go before us, and pass on: and stand thou yet a while, that I may tell thee the word of Jehovah.
and ye have taken the ark of Jehovah, and put it upon the cart, and the vessels of gold that ye have returned unto He -- a guilt-offering -- ye put in a coffer upon the side, and have sent it away, and it hath gone;
According to all their works, they have done from the day that I brought them forth out of Egypt until this day: as they have forsaken me, and served foreign gods, so do they also unto thee.
Samson said unto them, "If thou behave as this, surely I will take revenge upon thee, and after that I will cease."
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
And when he came, lo, Eli sat upon a throne by the way side; watching: for his heart trembled for the ark of God. And when the man came into the city, and told it, all the city cried out.
Remember thy leaders, men that spoke unto you the word of God, and considering the results of their conduct, imitate their faith.
And he went thither to Naioth by Ramah; and the Spirit of God came upon him also, and he went, and prophesied, until he came to Naioth by Ramah.
Rejoice in Jehovah always; again, I say, rejoice.
But there came a messenger unto Saul saying, Make haste and come; for the Philistines have fought against the land.
And David arose and passed over, he and the six hundred men that were with him, to Achish, the son of Maoch, king of Gath.
saying, Surely blessing I will multiplying I will bless thee, and multiply thee;
And the children of Benjamin gathered at that time, and wives were given them of the daughters of Jabes Galaad: but they found no others, whom they might give in like manner.
and their purifications accomplished, aside; for ye not [it would be] after vain things which cannot profit nor deliver; for they are vain.
And he took the people, and divided them into three companies, and laid wait in the field, and looked, and, behold, the people were come forth out of the city; and he rose up against them, and smote them.
And Jonathan said unto David, "Come, let us go forth to the field." So both of them went out to the field.
When I stroke with a trumpet, I and all that are with me, then stroke ye the trumpets also on every side of all the camp, and say, The sword of Jehovah, and of Gideon.
And when Saul sent messengers to make David she said, He is sick.
And Samson went down, and his father and his mother, to Timnathah; and they came unto the vineyards of Timnathah. And behold, a young lion roared against him;
And to whom did he swear, that they should not enter into his rest: but to them that were incredulous?
She sore troubled, so she prayed unto Yahweh and wept bitterly.
But the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Gedeon, and be blown the trumpet and called together the house of Abiezer, to follow him.
Now between the passes where Jonathan sought to pass over to the garrison of the Philistines there was a crag of rock on this side, and a crag of rock on that side. The name of the one was Bozez and the name of the other was Seneh.
When Samuel hath seen Saul, then hath Jehovah answer him, `Lo, the man of whom I have spoken unto thee; this doth restrain My people.'
And when they came thither to the hill, behold, a company of prophets met him; and the Spirit of God came upon him, and he prophesied among them.
And Saul smiteth Amalek from Havilah, -- thy go in to Shur; and he sojourned which on the two shoulder-pieces of Egypt,
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath Jearim saying, "The Philistines have returned the ark of Jehovah I Fall and bring it up to yourselves."
And Midian, and Amalek and all the children of the east lay along in the valley as locusts for multitude; and their camels were without number: as the sand upon the sea-shore for multitude.
in order that ye enter not sluggish, but imitators of them that inherit the promises through faith and patience.
Then said the princes of the Philistines, What do these Hebrews here? And Achish said unto the princes of the Philistines, Is not this David the servant of Saul the king of Israel, which hath been with me these days, or these years, and I have found no fault in him since he fell unto me unto this day?
But I have all things, and abound. I am filled, having received from Epaphroditus the things that came forth from thee, a perpetual fragrance, an acceptable and well-pleasing sacrifice unto God.
And the thorn said unto the trees, If it is indeed thy heart to make me thy king, then come and trust in my shade; and if not, let fire come out of the thorn, and it shall devour the cedars of Lebanon.
And he asked him, What is the word that Jehovah hath spoken unto thee? I beseech thee hide it not from me. God do so and so unto thee, and add so and so, if thou hide from me one word of all that were said unto thee.
Only let thy conversation be worthy of the gospel of Christ: that, whether I come and see thee, or, being absent, may hear of thee, that thou stand fast in one spirit, with one mind labouring together for the faith of the gospel.
But if ye are without discipline, wherein all legitimate sons are become participants, then are ye illegitimate and not sons.
And he had a son, whose name was Saul, a choice young man, and a goodly: and there was not among the children of Israel a goodlier person than he: from his shoulders and upward he was higher than any of the people.
therefore let us go forth to him without the camp, bearing his reproach:
"When long hair hangs loosely in Israel, when the people offer willingly Yahweh! bless themselves,
But Jael, the wife of Heber, the Kenite, and took in her hand a tent peg and a hammer, and she went softly unto him, and drove the peg into his temple, and it went through into the ground; he was fast asleep since he was exhausted, and he died.
He passed through the hill country of Ephraim, and passed through the land of Shalishah, but they didn't find them. And they passed through the land of Shaalim, and there they weren't there. And he passed through the land of the Benjamites, but they didn't find them.
For all seek their own things, not the things of Jesus Christ.
Be free from the love of money, content with such things as thou hast, for he hath said, "I shall in no wise leave thee, neither will I in no wise forsake you."
Thus God repaid the wickedness of Abimelech which he did unto his father, in killing his seventy brethren;
When Delilah saw that he had told her all his heart, she sent and called for the lords of the Philistines saying, "Come up this once, for he hath told me all his heart." Then the lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and brought the money in their hand.
And they encamped against them, and destroyed the increase of the earth, until thou come unto Gaza, and left no sustenance for Israel, neither sheep, nor bullock, nor foal of an ass.
And Saul said, God's do so to me, and more also, if death is not thy lot, Jonathan.
When they were at a distance the house, Micah and the men that were in the houses that stood by the house of Micah cried out, and they brought the descendants of Dan.
Then Micah said unto him, Make thy nest with me, and be a father and a priest unto me, and I will give thee ten shekels of silver, a year and thy garments and food.
Now some of the Hebrews were passed over the Jordan into the land of Gad and Gilead; but as for Saul, he was yet in Gilgal, and all the people followed him trembling.
If a man have sinned against a man, then hath God judged him; but if against Jehovah a man sin, that doth pray for him?' and they hearken not unto the voice of their father, though Jehovah hath delighted to slay them.
and ye have risen against the house of my father to-day, and slay his sons, seventy men, on the one stone, and cause Abimelech son of his handmaid to reign over the masters of Shechem, because he thy brother --
And David said unto his men, Before Jehovah; never be it from us that my hand was lifted up against my lord, the man of the Lord's anointed, for the Lord's holy mollified him.
And there goeth out a man of the duellists from the camps of the Philistines, Goliath his name, from Gath; his height six cubits and a span,
She fastened it with the pin, and said unto him, "The Philistines are upon thee, Samson!" He awakened out of sleep and plucked away the pin of the beam, and the web.
And Samson said unto them, "This time, even unto the Philistines are concerned, when I do something evil I am without blame."
But I am straitened between sunder having minded to be dissolved and to be with Christ, a thing by far the good.
That thy glory in me may be multiplied in Christ Jesus through my being present with you again.
And the angel of Jehovah came before his eyes, and said unto him, Jehovah is with thee, O man of war.
And Manoah said, Now when thy words be fulfilled, what shall be the statute for the child and what shall be his work?
And Jonathan hath not heard of his father's adjuring the people, and putteth forth the end of the rod, which in his hand, and dippeth it in the honeycomb, and bringeth back his hand unto his mouth -- and his eyes lo,
for, behold, ye shall conceive, and bring forth a son. No razor shall come upon his head; for the child shall be a Nazirite unto God from the womb. He shall begin to save Israel out of the hand of the Philistines."
For ye have need of endurance, that after thou hast done the will of God, ye may receive that which was promised.
But Saul said unto David, "You shall not be able to go against this Philistine to battle with him, because ye are but a child, whereas he hath been a man of war, since his childhood!"
for he was sick also close to death, but God had mercy on him, and not indeed upon him alone, but also upon me, that I should not have sorrow upon sorrow.
She let him down through a window. And he went and fled away, and escaped.
For ye have need of endurance in order that, having done the will of God, ye may receive the promise.
For we know him that hath said, Vengeance belongeth unto me, I will recompense, saith Jehovah. And again, Jehovah shall judge his people.
So Achish gave him Ziklag, in that day. (Therefore, Ziklag, hath belonged to the kings of Judah until this day).
He whom he spoke, answered: This is nothing else but the sword of Gedeon the son of Joas a man of Israel. For Jehovah hath delivered Madian, and all their camp into his hand.
able to be gentle, to them ignorant and going astray, since himself also is compassed with infirmity;
and their sins, and their lawlessnesses I will never remember any more.
Then Elcana her husband said unto her: Anna, why weepest thou? And why dost thou not eat? And why dost thou afflict thy heart? Am not I better to thee than ten borne?
And Jehovah being angry with them, delivered them into the hand of the Philistines, and of the children of Ammon.
And it cometh to pass, when Samuel aged, that he maketh his sons judges over Israel.
And they brought that which Micah had made, and his priest, and came to Laish, to a people that dwell patiently and at a temptation and they smote them with the sword, and burned their city.
As faith Moses, being born, was hid three months by his parents, because they saw the child fair; and they did not fear the injunction of the king.
And David said unto him, Canst thou bring me down unto this company? And he said, Swear unto me of God, that thou wilt neither kill me, nor deliver me into the hand of my master, and I will bring thee down to this throng.
Then the Philistines going up into the land of Juda, camped in the place which afterwards was called Lechi, that is, the Jawbone, where their host was spread.
the Amorites, were determined to live in Har-heres, of Aijalon, and in Shaalbim, but the hand of the house of Joseph was heavy upon them, and they became subjected to cast labor.
and trumpet's and voice of words; which they that heard, excusing themselves, declined word being addressed unto them any more:
And David arose, and he passed over with the six hundred men that were with him unto Achish, the son of Maoch, king of Gath.
Then said David, Ye shall not do so, my brethren, with that which Jehovah hath given us, who hath preserved us, and delivered company that came against us into our hand.
And David took Saul's sword and put the girdle of him over the molten garment; and could not go forward; for he was meet unto them. And David said unto Saul, It is not meet for me to go out with these, for I am not trees unto them. So David took them off.
Israel set ambushes all around Gibeah.
As faith Jacob blessed dying, each of the sons of Joseph, and adored the top of his rod.
He said, "Peaceably; I am come to sacrifice to Jehovah I Sanctify yourselves, and come with me into the sacrifice." He sanctified Jesse and his sons, and called them unto the sacrifice.
Naphtali took not the land of the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, or of Beth-anath, and drove them forth; but he dwelt among the Canaanite in the land; But the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, and Beth-anath, were put under taskwork.
The elders of Gilead said unto Jephthah, "Yahweh shall be witness between us. Surely we will do that which thou say."
Brethren, I do not count myself to have apprehended. But one thing I do: forgetting the things that are behind, and spread forth myself to them that are before,
And it shall come to pass, when these signs shall come unto thee, thou shalt do after thy hand shall find; for God is with thee.
But I have all, and abound: full, and having received of Epaphroditus the things that were sent from thee, an odour of a sweet savor, a sacrifice acceptable, wellpleasing unto God.
and carry these ten cheeses to the captain of the thousand, and visit thy brethren to see how they are, and take a pledge of them.
For if a man find his enemy, shall he let him go well away? wherefore Jehovah reward thee good for that thou hast done unto me this day.
Then said Saul unto David: Blessed art thou, my son David; and verily doing prevailing do, and thou shalt thou shalt prevail. And David went on his way, and Saul returned unto his place.
And he left them, that he might try Israel by them, whether they would hear the commandments of Jehovah, which he had commanded their fathers by Moses, or not.
Know ye not keep the lands of them whom Chemosh thy god bringeth forth from before thee? So we will keep all the lands of them whom Jehovah our God bringeth forth from before us.
(of whom the world was not worthy), to wander in deserts, mountains, caves, and the clefts of the earth.
He saith unto him, "Far from it; thou shalt not die. Behold, my father doeth nothing either great or small, but that he discloses it unto me. Why doth my father hide this thing so." It is not from me?
and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own, that which is of the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith;
and Abimelech pursueth him; and he fleeth from his presence, and the countries, and fall wounded -- unto the opening of the gate.
That which Chemosh thy god causeth thee to possess -- dost thou not possess it? and all that which Jehovah our God hath dispossessed from our presence, -- it we do possess.
They also that root is in Amalek came out of Ephraim, after thee, Benjamin, among thy peoples. Governors come down out of Machir. They that handle the marshal's staff came out of Zebulun, twelve cities.
So Samuel told him all the words and did not conceal anything from him. And he said, "He is Jehovah, he shall do that which is good in his sight."
And it came to pass when Israel became strong, that they made the Canaanites tributary; but they did not utterly dispossess them.
And the Amorites would dwell upon mount Heres, in Ajalon and in Shaalbim; but the hand of the house of Joseph prevailed, and they became tributaries.
And they said, Thou hast not wronged us, nor oppressed us, nor taken ought at any man's hand.
Her lord rose up in the morning, and opened the doors of the house, and went forth to go his way; and behold, the woman his concubine had fallen down at the door of the house, with her hands upon the threshold.
And let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works:
The congregation sent twelve thousand of the most valiant men there, and commanded them, saying, "Go and strike the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead with the edge of the sword, and the women, and the little ones.
Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated evil; and God, thy God, hath put the oil of joy upon thy head more than upon the heads of them that are with thee.
So Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, Let Jehovah even require it at the hand of David's enemies.
And again Saul sent to see David, voice, saying, Bring him to me in the bed, that he may be slain.
As faith, Abraham, being tempted, offer up Isaac. Yea, he that had willingly received the promises was offering up his one and only son;
and he smiteth them from Aroer, and unto thy go in to Minnith, twenty cities, and unto the meadow of the vineyards -- a very great smiting; and the Bene-Ammon are humbled at the presence of the sons of Israel.
And Elkanah went to Ramah, to his house. And the lad ministered unto Jehovah in the presence of Eli the priest.
Then Abigail made haste and took two hundred loaves, and two vessels of wine, and five sheep dressed, and five measures of parched corn, and a hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred loaves of dry figs, and laid them upon asses:
For if the blood of goats and bulls, and the ashes of a heifer sprinkling they that have been defiled, sanctify unto the cleanness of the flesh:
But on any good and give unto others, for God is well-pleased with such sacrifices.
David called forth to the host and to Abner the son of Ner, "Will ye not answer, Abner?" And Abner answer and said, "Who art thou that thou call unto the king?"
It was right for us to have such a high priest, one that is holy and without evil, not guilty, having no portion with sinners, and made great above the heavens;
When they were come down from the high place into the city, he heard with Saul upon the housetop.
And it was so. And when he rose up early on the morrow, he pressed the fleece together, and wrung dew out of the fleece, a bowl-full of water.
Then David arose, and came to the place where Saul had encamped, and David saw the place where Saul was lying down, and Abner the son of Ner, the commander of his host. (Now Saul was lying in the encampment, and the host was encamping around him.)
Samson said unto them, "This time I will be blameless in the case of the Philistines, when I harm them."
But I rejoiced in Jehovah greatly, that now at the last thy charge of me hath flourished again; wherein ye were careful, but ye also lacked opportunity.
Then Achish gave him Ziklag, that day: wherefore Ziklag, pertaineth unto the kings of Judah unto this day.
For Jehovah executeth vengeance for his chosen ones: every one whom he taketh according to all that his son hath known, his rod.
These all died in faith apart from receiving the promises, but beholding them from a way and welcoming them, and admitting that they were strangers and temporary residents upon the earth.
As he did so year by year, when she went up to Yahweh's house. Her rival provoked her; therefore she wept, and didn't eat.
that ye may become blameless and harmless, children of God without defect in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, among whom thou art seen as lights in the world,
Saul chose for himself three thousand men of Israel, whereof two thousand were with Saul in Michmash and in the mount of Bethel, and one thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin. He sent the rest of the people to their own tents.
And all the men of Israel said unto Gedeon: Rule thou over us, and thy son, and thy son's son: because thou hast delivered us from the hand of Madian.
Deal mercifully then with thy servant; for thou hast brought me thy servant into a covenant of Jehovah with thee. But if there be any iniquity in me, do thou kill me, and bring me not in unto thy father.
And it cometh to pass, when Gideon heareth the narration of the dream and the interpretation, that he boweth himself, and turneth back unto the camp of Israel, and saith, `Rise ye, for Jehovah hath given into thy hand the camp of Midian.'
And he took Agag the king of the Amalekite alive, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword.
And the spies behold, a man come forth out of the city, and they said unto him, Shew us, we pray thee, the entrance into the city, and we will shew thee lovingkindness.
And they said one to another, "Who came this thing?" So they Sought and inquired, and they said, "Gideon son of Jehoash did this thing."
Water he asked -- milk she gave; In a lordly dish she brought near butter.
And it came to pass as they came, when David returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, that the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul, with tambours, with joy, and with triangles.
Yet thou hast abandoned me, and served other gods. Therefore I will no more deliver thee.
"So let all your enemies perish, Jehovah, but let them that love him be as the sun when it rises in its strength." And the land had rest forty years.
Now therefore stand and see this great thing that Jehovah will do in the midst of thee.
And Jonathan swore again unto David, because he loved him: for he loved him as his own soul.
For the people that were numbered of them, and, behold, there were none of the inhabitants of Jabeshgilead there.
for we have known He that is saying, `Vengeance Mine, I will recompense, saith the Lord;' and again, `The Lord shall judge His people;' --
They took the ark of God into the house of Dagon and put it by the side of Dagon.
And David said to Jonathan To-morrow is the new moon, and I will not sit with the king at his table: but let me go to a refuge in the country until the evening.
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
Did I bring him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest and to go up to my altar to make the smoke of the offerings go up and to bear the ephod? Did I give unto your father's family all the offerings of Jehovah made by fire by the children of Israel?
And it answer them: Can I leave my sweetness, and my delicious fruits, and go to be promoted among the other trees?
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
I have known both to be abased, and I have known to abound; in all and in all things I have been initiated, both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to be in want.
He numbered them in Bezek; and the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
For think diligently upon him that endured such opposition from sinners against himself; that ye be not wearied, fainting in your ears.
For this is the covenant that I will decree with the house of Israel after those days, saith Jehovah: I lay my statutes in their heart, and I will write them upon their heart, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
Go therefore, I pray thee, and with all diligence, and curiously inquire, and consider the place where his foot is, and who hath seen him there: for he thinketh me, that I lie craftily in wait for him.
They that were full must hire themselves out for bread, but they that are hungry shall become fat. As for the infertile, she shall bear seven, but she that hath the countries, and sons withers away.
And the Spirit of Jehovah began to be with him in the camp of Dan, between Saraa and Esthaol.
And he divided the three hundred men into three companies, and he set a trumpet in every man's hand, with empty pitchers, and within the lamps pitchers.
And he consulted Jehovah, and he answer him not, neither by dreams, nor by priests, nor by prophets.
And Saul gathered the people together, and numbered them in Telaim, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And it came to pass the next day, that Saul set the people in three companies; and they came into the midst of the camp in the morning watch, and smote Ammon until the fierceness of the day: and it came to pass that they that remained were scattered, and not two of them were left together.
Abimelech rose up, and all the people that were with him, by night, and they laid wait against Shechem in four companies.
And Israel and the Philistines had set the battle in state, army against host.
And this I pray, that thy love may abound yet more and more in knowledge, and in all judgment;
and he saith unto them, `What have I done now like thee? are not the gleanings of Ephraim better than the harvest of Abi-Ezer?
For if a man find his enemy, shall he let him go well away? wherefore Jehovah reward thee good for that thou hast done unto me this day.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he went down to Ascalon, and slew there thirty men, whose garments he took away and gave unto them that had declared the riddle. And being exceeding angry he went up to his father's house:
And Gideon said unto them, "Let me and entreat of thee, that each of you give unto me an ornamental ring from his plunder." (They had ornamental rings of gold, because they were Ishmaelites.)
And they all came to the house of God in Silo, and abiding before him until the evening, he lifted up their voices, and lament and began to weep, voice, saying,
And all [they of] the land are come into a forest, and there is honey upon the face of the field;
For such a high priest became us, who is holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from the wicked; and made above the heavens;
Ye have not torn in mount that may be touched, and is burned with fire, and to a thick cloud, and a dark smoke, and a mighty wind,
Of whom it was said, that in Isaac shall thy seed be called:
Stay with me. Don't be afraid, for he that seeks my life seeks thy life. For ye shall dwell with me."
Whereof the Holy Ghost also is a witness unto us; for after that he had said before,
When Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart trembled greatly.
Bent at her feet he went down, he was spread out bowed at her feet he went down; where he was bowed down, there he went down in death.
Arise therefore in the night with the house that is with thee and he hid in the field:
But Ahimelech answer the king, and said, "And who among all thy servants is as faithful as David? He is the son-in-law of the king that moves haste to safeguard thee, and is honored in thy house.
where as a forerunner Jesus entered for us, having become a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek.
And when Saul saw how soberly that he did, he was afraid of him.
lo, my daughter, virgin, and his concubine, let me bring them out, I pray thee, and humble ye them, and do unto them that which is good in thy sight, and to this man do not this foolish thing.'
Then said Saul unto his servants, Seek me a woman that hath a spirit of Python, that I may go unto her, and inquire of her. And his servants said unto him, Behold, there is a woman that hath a spirit of Python at En-dor.
and the three eldest sons of Jesse go, they are gone after Saul to battle; and the name of his three sons that are gone into battle Eliab, the first-born, and his second Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
and Saul saith unto the bearer of his `Draw weapons, thy sword, and pierce me with it, lest they come -- these uncircumcised -- and have pierced me, and rolled themselves upon me;' and the bearer of his weapons hath not been willing, for he is greatly afraid, and Saul taketh the sword, and falleth upon it.
And the me, came to Saul at Gibeah, and said, Is not David wait nigh unto us in the hill of Hachilah, before the wilderness?
all the valiant men arose, went all night, and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth Shan; and they came to Jabesh, and burnt them there.
And Saul said unto him, Young man, whose son art thou? And David answered and said, I am the son of thy servant Jesse of Beth-lehem.
It repenteth me that I have set up Saul to be king: for he is turned back from following me, and hath not performed my commandments. And it grieved Samuel; and he cried unto Jehovah all night.
And Saul's uncle said, Tell me, I pray thee, what Samuel said unto thee.
For Jehovah will not give his people up, because of his name; for it was the Lord's will to make of thee a people for his name.
The lords of the Philistines passed on by hundreds and by thousands, and David and his men passed on in the rear with Achish.
After a while, at the time of the wheat harvest, Samson visited his wife with a kids. He said, "I want to go to my wife's separate room." But her father would not allow him to enter.
Do not they find? -- they apportion spoil, A female -- two ewes -- for every head, Spoil of finger-work for Sisera, Spoil of embroidered finger-work, Finger-work -- a pair of embroidered things, For the neck of the spoil!
And Micah gave the array unto the Levite, and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
Let them meditate on it, that go upon white asses, and they that walk on the way.
But David's men said unto him, "Look, we are afraid here in Judah. How much more if we go to Keilah unto the battle rows of the Philistines?"
Now therefore deliver us the men, the children of Belial, which are in Gibeah, that we may slay them, and put away the evil from Israel. But the children of Benjamin would not hearken unto the voice of their brethren the children of Israel.
Then David said unto Achish, "But what do I done? And what hast thou found in thy servant from the day that I entered thy service until this day, that I should not go and battle against the enemies of my lord the king?"
And the desireth the saith unto them, Have I ceased from my sweetness, and my good increase, that I have gone to stagger over the trees?
And when Israel had sown, Madian and Amalec, and the rest of the eastern nations set up;
For when God made a promise unto Abraham, since he could swear by none greater, he swore by himself,
and to Gideon there have been seventy sons, coming out of his loin, for he had the countries, wives;
And when I stroke with a trumpet, I and all that are with me, ye shall also had smitten the whole trumpets around the camp, and shall say, For Jehovah and for Gideon!
His brethren and his whole family came down and picked him up; and they brought him up, and buried him between Zorah, and Eshtaol, in the tomb of Manoah his father: he judged Israel twenty years.
and a messenger of Jehovah appeareth unto the woman, and saith unto her, `Lo, I pray thee, barren, and thou hast not borne; when thou hast conceived, then thou hast borne a son.
Let this mind be in thee, which was also in Christ Jesus:
And the congregation sent there twelve thousand men from the troops, and they commanded them, saying, "Go, strike the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead, with the edge of the sword, and the women and children.
And it came to pass, when all that knew him before saw that, behold, he prophesied among the prophets, then the people said one to another, What is this that hath happened unto the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?
All these died according to faith, not having received the promises, but beholding them afar off, and saluting them, and confessing that they are pilgrims and strangers upon the earth.
And the children of Judah did not make the Jebusites, that dwelt in Jerusalem go forth; the Jebusites is escaped with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem.
and to remain in the flesh is more necessary upon thy separation,
God providing some better thing for us, that they should not be perfected without us.
And after him was Shamgar the son of Anath, which slew of the Philistines six hundred men with an ox goad: and he also delivered Israel.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not one by one, again with thee; for thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah hath rejected thee from being king over Israel.
And the Israelites drew near unto the descendants of Benjamin on the second day.
Now on the fourth day they rose up early in the morning, and he made ready to go away; but the girl's father said unto his son-in-law, Take a little food ye your strength, and then pass on.
And the people -- heads of Gilead unto another, -- say one `Who the man that doth begin to battle against the Bene-Ammon? he is for head unto all inhabitants of Gilead.'
And as for thy female donkeys that were lost three days ago, do not be concerned about them, because they have been found. For whom is all the desire of Israel? Is it not for you and for all the house of thy father?"
and call unto the sons of Dan, and they purifications accomplished, round about their faces, and say unto Micah, `What -- unto thee that thou hast been called together?'
thus the Christ also, having been once sacrificed to bear the iniquity of many, shall appear to them that look for him the second time perfect for salvation.
I press toward the mark for the prize of the high cursed of God in Christ Jesus.
And Jonathan hailstones David to swear again, because he loved him: for he loved him as he loved his own soul.
Then the angel of Yahweh reached out the tip of the staff that was in his hand, and he touch the food and the unleavened bread, and fire went up from the rock and consumed the food and the unleavened bread. And the angel of Yahweh went from his sight.
And they run and bring him thence, and he against himself in the midst of the people, and he is higher than any of the people from his shoulder and upward.
There was a certain man from Zorah, out of the tribe of the Danites that could set and his name was Manoah; his wife was infertile and did not bear children.
And Samson said unto them, This time I am blameless toward the Philistines, although I do them harm.
Of him we have the countries, words to say, and hard to interpret, seeing thou art become dull of ears.
In that he saith, A new covenant, he hath made the first old. Now that which decayeth and waxeth old is ready to vanish away.
So they ate, and sat down, drank, both of them together. And the young lady's father said unto the man, "Please be pleased to stay all night, and let thy heart be merry."
And he said unto them, "Watch me and do likewise. When I come unto the border of the camp, do just as I do.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kirjath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have brought again the ark of Jehovah; come down, fetch it up unto you.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Gideon, and he blew the trumpet, and the Abi-ezrites were gathered after him.
And she hath saith, `Honour removed from Israel, for the ark of God hath been taken.'
and the sons of Israel do the evil thing in the sight of Jehovah, and forget Jehovah their God, and serve the Baalim and the shrines.
And they waited so long they became embarrassed because he did not open the doors of the upper chamber. And they took the key and opened the gates, and there their lord was lying on the ground dead.
Now the number of them that bare the water with their tongue was three hundred left, all the residue of the people kneeled down to the water.
Then Yahweh raised up leaders, and they delivered them from the hand of their plunderers.
How shall we provide wives for them that remain, since we have sworn by Yahweh that we will not give them of our daughters unto wives?"
And the children of Israel repented them for Benjamin their brother, and said, There is one tribe cut off from Israel this day.
Salute ye every saint in Christ Jesus.
Behold, ye are all children of Israel; give here thy advice and counsel.
The Philistines were standing on the hill on the one side, and the host of Israel was standing on the hill on the other side with the valley between them.
As the proverb of the ancients saith, 'Out of the wicked cometh wickedness;' but my hand shall not be upon you.
When therefore these signs shall happen to thee, do whatsoever thy hand shall find, for Jehovah is with thee.
And Samson saith unto her, `If they bind me with seven green withs which have not been dried, then I have been weak, and have been as one of the human race.'
In those days was there no king in Israel, and in those days the Danites looked for an inheritance for themselves, to be their dwelling-place: for as yet no daily ministration. land had been revealed unto them among the tribes of Israel.
And the men of Israel turned in the battle, and Benjamin began to inflict casualties upon about thirty men of Israel because they device, "They shall be utterly defeated before us, as in the first battle."
Then about a month after this, Nahash the Ammonite came up, and set the battle in array for smote Jabesh-gilead: and all the men of Jabesh said unto Nahash, Make a covenant with us, and we will serve thee.
And Saul spoke to Jonathan his son and to all his servants, that they should kill David. But Jonathan the son of Saul beloved David exceedingly.
And they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, that brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods, of the gods of the people that were round about them, and bowed themselves unto them, and provoked Jehovah to anger.
And David said unto Saul, Why dost thou give any heed to them that say that I desire to do ye unrighteousness?
When thou hast stayed three days, go down quickly, and come unto the place where thou hid thyself when this started, and remain by the stone Ezel.
And all the sons of Israel go up, even all the people, and come in unto Beth-El, and weep, and sit there before Jehovah, and fast on that day until the even, and cause to ascend burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
And the wagon came into the field of Josue a Bethsamite, and stood there. And there was a great stone, and they cut in pieces the wood of the cart, and laid the kine upon it a holocaust unto Jehovah.
David said unto Saul, "Do not let anyone's heart fail concerning him. Thy servant shall go and battle with this Philistine."
There remaineth therefore a day of rest for the people of God.
So the priest delivered him hallowed baketh bread: yea, for there was no bread there but the shewbread, that was taken from before Jehovah, to put hot bread in the day that it was taken away.
And Jonathan took off the robe he had upon and gave it unto David, and all his military dress, even to his sword and his bow and the girdle of his body.
Let us therefore, as the countries, and thus be perfect, as are minded; and if in any thing thou be otherwise minded, this also God will reveal unto you.
But ye know the proof of him, that, as a son with the father, he hath served with me in the gospel.
Now know how great this man was, to whom our father Abraham gave a tenth part of that which he had gathered in battle.
For the Christ is not entered into sanctuaries made with hand, figures of the true, but into heaven itself, now to appear before the face of God for us:
Lo, this day have thine eyes seen how that Jehovah hath given thee to-day into my hand in the cave; and said unto thee, and slay [mine eye] hath pity upon thee, and I say, I do not put forth my hand against my lord, for the anointed of Jehovah he .
Now therefore, please let my lord the king hear the words of his servant. If it is that Yahweh hath stirred thee up against me, let him accept an oblation. But if it is the children of men, they are cursed before Yahweh; for they have driven me out this day, that I shouldn't Yahweh's cling to serve other gods!' 'Go, inheritance, saying,
yea behold, and I am ready to give up all things for the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, which is more than all: for whom I have borne the loss of all things, and to me they are less than nothing, that I may have Christ as my vengeance,
And when the men of Israel turned back in the battle, Benjamin began to smite, slaying of the men of Israel about thirty men; for they said, Surely they are altogether routed before us, as in the first battle.
But now this shall be the thing that we will do unto Gibeah: we will go up by lot against it;
and he taketh a couple of oxen, and cutteth them in pieces, and sendeth throughout all the border of Israel, by the hand of the messengers, saying, `He that is not coming out after Saul and after Samuel -- thus it is done to his oxen;' and the fear of Jehovah falleth on the people, and they come out as one man.
And Achish believed on what David said, saying, He hath made himself hated of all his people Israel, and so he shall be my servant for ever.
And Samson, cried unto Jehovah, said, O Lord Jehovah, do have me now in mind, and do make me strong only this once, O God, that I may take one last avenged on the Philistines for my two eyes.
The wise ones, her princesses, answer her, Yea, she herself: words unto her returneth
And they buried him within the border of his inheritance in Timnah-heres, in the hill country of Ephraim north of the mountain of Gaash.
For if the word, spoken by angels, became steadfast, and every transgression and received a just disobedience recompense of reward:
to them that were in Hebron, and to all the places where David himself and his men used to stay.
and the sons of Benjamin are gathered out of the cities to Gibeah, go forth to battle with the sons of Israel.
And Samuel said unto all the people: Surely thou see him whom Jehovah hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people. And all the people cried and said, God save the king.
As faith Joseph, when his end was near, said that the children of Israel would go out of Egypt; and gave charge concerning his bones.
Caleb said, "I will give Achsah my daughter to the man that strikes Kiriath Sepher, and taketh it."
dwell with me; fear not; for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life; for a charge thou with me.'
A man make void the law of Moses, dieth without any lovingkindness under two or three witnesses:
Zalmunna Zebah and fled; and he pursued them. And he took the two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna, and confused all the host.
Then came the messengers to Gibeah of Saul, and told the tidings in the ears of the people: and all the people lifted up their voices, and wept.
And the time that David dwelt in the country of the Philistines was four months.
They took their daughters to be their wives, and gave their own daughters unto their sons, and served their gods.
So his mother's family said all this about him in the ears of all the inhabitants of Shechem: and their heart turned unto Abimelech for they said, He is our brother.
And Hannah, answered him, said, Nay, my lord, I am a woman whose spirit is broken with mourning: I have not taken wine nor strong drink, but I have been opened my heart before Jehovah.
And in this confidence I know that I shall go over, yea, and go with you all, for thy rising, and joy in the faith;
For he hath spoken somewhere of the seventh thus, And God rested on the seventh day from all his works:
And the lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and said unto her, Entice him, and see wherein of his might, lieth, and by what means we may prevail against him, that we may bind him to afflict him; and we will give thee each one of us eleven hundred pieces of silver.
Judah rebelled against the Canaanites that lived in Hebron. That name of Hebron beforetime was Kiriath Arba.) They struck Talmai. and Ahiman, Sheshai,
Then said all the trees bramble, Come thou, and unto the reign over us.
And the people say unto Saul, `Doth Jonathan die that wrought this great salvation in Israel? -- a profanation! Jehovah liveth, if there falleth from the hair of his head to the earth, that with God he hath wrought this day;' and the people rescue Jonathan and he hath not died.
fulfil my joy, that ye may think the same thing, having the same love, joined in soul, thinking one thing;
And David laid up these words in his heart, and was sore afraid of Achish the king of Gath.
And David's two wives were carried captives, Ahinoam the Jizreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
And David answer the priest, and said unto him, Of a truth women that is us concerning these three days, since I came out, and the vessels of the young men are holy, and the bread is in a manner common, yea, though it were sanctified this day in the vessel.
`And now, Jehovah, God of Israel, hath dispossessed the Amorite, from the presence of His people Israel, and thou wouldst possess it:
And the congregation sent thither twelve thousand men of the valiantest, and commanded them, saying, Go and smite the inhabitants of Jabeshgilead with the edge of the sword, and the women, and the children.
Go, I pray you, make yet more sure, and know and see his place where his track is, that hath seen him there; for it is told me that he deals very subtilly.
When the Philistine arose, and henceforth bereave and came near to meet David, David hurried, and ran toward the host to meet the Philistine.
And Jephthah passeth over unto the Bene-Ammon to battle against them, and Jehovah giveth them into his hand,
And they bring the ark of God to Ekron, and it cometh to pass, at the coming in of the ark of God to Ekron, that the Ekronites cry out, saying, `They have brought round unto us the ark of the God of Israel, to kill us -- and our people.'
And he spake also unto the men of Penuel saying, When I come again in peace, I will break down this tower.
Now these are the gold tumors which the Philistines returned as a guilt oblation unto Jehovah: one; the gate of Ashdod, one; the gate of Gaza, one; the gate of Ashkelon, one; the gate of Gath, one; the gate of Ekron.
As also a piece of a cake of figs, and two bunches of raisins. And when he had eaten them his spirit returned, and he was refreshed: for he had not eaten bread, nor drunk water, three days, and three nights.
But what things were gain unto me, them I counted loss for Christ.
For rebellion is as the iniquity of witchcraft, and stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. Because thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, he also hath rejected thee from being king.
Yea doubtless, and I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord: for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but win Christ, that I may dung,
holding fast the word of life, for a source of pride unto me in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain or labor in vain.
And when it was told Saul, he sent other messengers, and they prophesied likewise. And Saul sent messengers again the third time, and they prophesied also.
The wisest of her ladies answer her; she also answers the matter herself:
This thing is not good that thou hast done. As Jehovah liveth, ye are worthy to die, because ye have not kept thy master the Lord's anointed. And now see where the king's spear is, and the cruse of water that was at his bolster.
And every year Eli gave Elkanah, and his wife blessed; saying, Jehovah grant you seed of this woman in exchange for the child thou hast given Jehovah. And they returned to their house.
And it was told Saul by some, voice, saying, Behold David is in Najoth in Ramatha.
And all the wicked men, and of Belial, of them that went up with David, answer and said, Because they went not with us, we will not give them of the spoil that we have recovered, save to every man his wife, and his children, that they may lead away and depart.
And let us think about how to stir up one another, to love and good works,
And as this is not without the carrying of an oath
And all Israel have heard, saying, `Saul hath smitten the garrison of the also, and Philistines,' `Israel hath been abhorred by the Philistines;' and the people are called after Saul to Gilgal.
And Abimelech is prince over Israel three years,
David said unto Saul, "Why do ye listen to men's words, saying, 'Behold, David seeks to harm you?'
and the Philistines call for priests and for diviners, saying, `What do we do unto the ark of Jehovah? let us know wherewith we bring it to the place?'
And David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice, and wept, until they had no more power to weep.
For if the word which was spoken by angels was firm, and every transgression and received disobedience just retribution,
Then three thousand men out of Judah went down to the cleft of the rock of Etam, and they said unto Samson, "Do ye not know that the Philistines are rule over us? What is this that thou hast done unto us?" And he said unto them, "Just as they did unto me, therefore I have done to them."
And his concubine that was in Shechem, she also bare him a son, whose name he called Abimelech.
For they that say such things show that they are seeking a homeland.
and the woman hasteth, and runneth, and declareth unto her husband, and saith unto him, `Lo, he hath appeared unto me -- the man that came upon day unto me.'
But the people took of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the choicest of the devoted things, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.
And when they of Ashdod, arose early the next day, behold, Dagon had fallen with his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah. And they took Dagon, and set him in his place again.
And David goeth thence to Mizpeh, of Moab, and saith unto the king of Moab, `Let, I pray thee, my father and my mother go forth with thee, until that For I know what God doth for me;'
The stars fought from heaven; from their courses they fought against Sisera.
And the princes of all the people, even of all the tribes of Israel, station themselves in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen drawing sword.
And Saul was very wroth, and that saying was evil in his sight; and he said, They have ascribed to David ten thousands, but to me they have ascribed the thousands, and is there more for him but the kingdom?
But my God shall supply all thy want abundantly according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
As faith Abel sacrificed to God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, whereby he obtained testimony of being righteous, God bearing testimony unto his gifts, and by it, having speaks. yet he died,
Ye shall not only while yet I live show me the to love kindness of Jehovah, that I not die;
Zebulun a people that exposed its soul to death, Naphtali also -- on high places of the field.
So the man Elkanah went up with all his household to make the sacrifice to annual Yahweh and to pay his vow.
In the days of Shamgar, the son of Anath, in the days of Jael, the highways were not used, and the foreigner that shall come passed by side roads.
He sent to them that were in Beth-el, and in Ramah, of the South, and in Jattir;
Then Abishai said unto David, God hath given up the enemy into thy hand this day: behold, now let me give him one stroke through to the earth with the and there shall be no need to give him a second.
Judging that God was able to give life even to the dead; and because of this he did bring him back as though from death.
So also Christ didn't glorify himself to be made a high priest, but it was he that said unto him, "You art my Son. To-day I am become thy father."
If then indeed he were upon earth, he would not even be a priest, there being them that offer the gifts according to the law,
But Joash said unto all them that smote him; Wilt thou enter into judgment of Baal? wilt thou be his saviour? Let whosoever shall bear his cause die while it is yet morning: if he be a god, let him take up his cause himself because of the and brake down of his altar.
And all the men of Israel that was then in the hill-country of Ephraim, heard that the Philistines had been put to away, followed them, smote them.
And he had a helmet of bronze upon his head, and he was clothed with a corselet of scales; and the weight of the corselet was five thousand pieces of bronze.
But David fled and escaped, and came to Samuel in Ramatha, and told him all that Saul had done to him: and he and Samuel went and dwelt in Najoth.
And David asketh at Jehovah, saying, `Do I walk? -- and have I smitten among these Philistines?' And saith Jehovah unto David, `Go, and thou hast smitten among the Philistines, and saved Keilah.'
And Jehovah sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, that reigned in Hazor; the captain of whose host was Sisera, which dwelt in Harosheth of the Gentiles.
And the men of Israel went forth to battle against Benjamin (and the men of Israel set the battle in strife commandment against them at Gibeah).
saying, "This is the blood of the covenant which God hath commanded you."
And when David returned after the destruction of the Philistine, Abner brought him to Saul, with the head of the Philistine in his hand.
And Saul returned not look upon David with a good eye from that day and forward.
Then Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, having three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
And all the people rise as one man, saying, `None of us doth go to his tent, and none of us doth turning aside to his house;
When ye go in, ye shall come to a people secure, and the land is spacious in every means; for God hath given it into thy hands; [it is] a place where there is no want of anything that is upon the earth.
And David girded his sword upon his armour, and he assayed to walk; For he had not proved it. And David said unto Saul, I cannot go with these; for I have not proved them. And David put them off him.
Then Saul sent messengers to David's house to guard him and to kill him in the morning, but Michal his wife told David, saying, "If ye will not save thy life to-night, then to-morrow thou shalt be killed!"
for every house is builded by some one, and He that the all things did build God,
And Jehovah addeth to appear in Shiloh, for Jehovah hath been revealed unto Samuel, in Shiloh, by the word of Jehovah.
He was very thirsty, and called upon Jehovah, and said, "You have given this great deliverance by the hand of thy servant; and now shall I die of thirst, and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised?"
Ye have not yet resisted unto blood, wrestling against sin.
Once again Jephthah sent messengers to the king of the Ammonites,
And it hath been if Israel hath sowed, that Midian hath come up, and Amalek, and the sons of the east, yea, they have rise up against him,
As for thy donkeys that were lost three days ago, don't set thy mind upon them; for they have been found. For whom is all that is desirable in Israel? Is it not for thee, and for all thy father's house?"
And the servants of Saul declare unto him, saying, `According unto these words hath David spoken.'
Now ye know Philippians also, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church communicated with me as concerning giving and receiving, but ye only.
And Saul encampeth in the height of Hachilah, which upon the face of the desert, by the way, and David is abiding in the wilderness, and he seeth that Saul hath come after him in unto the wilderness;
And Gideon came to the Jordan, passed over, he and the three hundred men that were with him, yet faint, pursuing.
The children of Israel also returned by their tribes, and fathers' houses, unto their dwellings. In those days there was no king in Israel: but every one did that which the thing was right in himself.
And he passeth over through the hill-country of Ephraim, and passeth over through the land of Shalisha, and they have not found; and they pass over through the land of Shaalim, and they are not, neither did he passeth over through the land of Benjamin, and they have not found.
Now the sons of Eli were sons of Belial; they knew not Jehovah.
For he that is entered into his rest, he also hath ceased from his own works, as God did from his.
The cities which the Philistines had taken out of Israel were returned unto Israel from Ekron Gath, and Israel delivered their territories from the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
having not afraid of them that are against thee; which is a manifest token of their destruction; but of thy salvation, and that from God;
And they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who had brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, and went after other gods, the gods of the peoples that are round about them, himself before them, and to provoke Jehovah to anger.
and the men very good unto us, and have not cast us to shame, and we have not sought after anything all the days we have gone up and down with them, in our being in the field;
Have I need of mad men, that ye have brought this mad fellow to play the presence? in my man shall this fellow come into my house?
And hospitality do not forget; for by this some, being not aware of it, have entertained angels.
and he saith unto his mother, `The eleven hundred silverlings which have been taken of thine, and [of which] also sworn, and thou hast spoken in mine ears; lo, the silver with me, I have taken it;' and his mother saith, `Blessed my son of Jehovah.'
And as soon as the lad was gone, David arose out of a place toward the south, and fell on his face to the ground, and bowed himself thrice: and they kissed one another, and wept one with another, until David exceeded.
Nevertheless I consider those things that were gain unto me as a loss for Christ.
And her lord rose up in the morning, and opened the door of the house, and went forth to go his way, and behold, there lay the woman his concubine at the entrance of the house, and her hands were upon the threshold.
And David's men said unto him, Behold the day of which Jehovah said unto thee, Behold, I will give thine enemy into thy hand, that thou mayest do unto him as it shall seem good unto thee. And David arose, and cut off the skirt of Saul's garment nothing.
Therefore I have sworn to the house of Eli, that the iniquity of Eli's house shall not be removed with sacrifice or offering forever."
And he had thirty sons that rode upon thirty ass colts; and they had thirty cities, which are called the villages of Jair unto this day, that are in the land of Gilead.
and Moab is humbled in that day under the hand of Israel; and the land resteth fourscore years.
When he had finished speaking unto Saul, the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David, and Jonathan beloved him as his own soul.
And they brought that which Micah had made, and the priest that he had had, and came upon Laish, upon a people quiet, and secure; and they smote them with the edge of the sword, and burned the city with fire.
And when all that knew him formerly saw that he prophesied with prophets, the people said one to another, "What is this that hath happened unto the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?"
Now my father, behold, Yea, behold, the hem of thy bosom in my hand! For when I cut the hem of thy bosom I have not kill thee. Know and realize that there is no evil or rebellion in my hand. I have not sin against thee, but ye are hunting down my life to drink it.
but over the Ashurites, lived among the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land; for they did not drive them out.
for my father fought for you, and endangered his life, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian;
He caught a young man of the men of Succoth, and inquired of him: and he described for him the princes of Succoth, and the elders, seventy and seven men.
for the reckoning of God liveth, and working, and sharp above every two-edged sword, and unto the dividing piercing asunder both of soul, and spirit, of joints also and marrow, and a discerner of thoughts and intents of the heart;
yea, they forsake Jehovah, and do service unto Baal, to Ashtaroth.
Now while Saul talked with the priest, the noise in the tents of the Philistines waxed louder and louder; and Saul said unto the priest, Take back thy hand.
for he of whom these things are said in another tribe hath had portion, of whom no man gave attendance at the altar,
for Jehovah doth not leave His people, for His great name; for Jehovah hath pleased to make thee to He for a people.
So God that day humbled Jabin the king of Chanaan before the children of Israel:
So that day God smote Jabin, king of Canaan, before the children of Israel.
And now, behold, For I know well that thou shalt surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thine hand.
And for this cause he is the mediator of the new covenant, that by means of death, for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first covenant, they that are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance.
Then the priest's heart was glad, and he took the ephod, and the family gods, and the graven image and went with the people.
Then all the Midian and the Amalekite and the inhabitants of the east, banding themselves together, passed over and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
And I sought him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth, and when he arose against me, I seized him by his beard, and smote him, and slew him.
looking unto Jesus the author and finisher of our faith; that for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God.
After whom is the king of Israel come out? after whom dost thou pursue? after a dead flea. after a dog,
Then prayed unto Manoah Yahweh and said, "Excuse me, my Lord, please let the man of God whom ye sent again come unto us, and teach us what we should do concerning the lad that shall be born."
So that day he called his name Jerubbaal, saying, Let Baal, bear his controversy with him, because his altar hath broken down.
And Manoah said unto his wife, We shall surely die, because we have seen God.
My heart loveth the princes of Israel: O ye that of your own good shall offer yourselves unto a temptation bless Jehovah.
And there was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Bechorath, the son of Aphiah, the son of a Benjaminite, a mighty man of wealth.
And the old man raised his eyes, and saw the traveler in the court of the city, and he said, "Where goest thou? and from where do ye come?"
and all the people go to Gilgal, and cause Saul to reign there before Jehovah in Gilgal, and sacrifice there sacrifices of peace-offerings before Jehovah, and there Saul rejoiceth -- and all the men of Israel -- very greatly.
For unto which of the angels said he at any time, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee? And moreover I will be his Father, and he shall be my Son?
And Saul and the people spared Agag and the best of the flocks of sheep and of the herds, and the garments and the rams, and all that was fair, and would not destroy them: but every thing that was vile and good for nought; that they destroyed.
And Jehovah spake unto Gideon, By the three hundred men that lapped will I save you, and deliver the Midian into thine hand; and let all the people go every man unto his stead.
David came to Saul, and stood before him. He beloved him greatly; and he became his armor bearer.
For as Jehovah liveth, which saveth Israel, though it be in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die. But there was not a man among all the people that answer him.
and the sons of Dan go on their way and Micah seeth that they are stronger than he, and turneth, and goeth back unto his house.
as it is righteous for me to think this as unto you all, because ye have *me* in thy heart, and that both in my bonds and in the defence and confirmation of the glad tidings ye are all participators in my grace.
And it came to pass afterward, that he loved a woman in the valley of Sorek, whose name was Delilah.
And the tabernacle too and all the vessels of service he sprinkled in like manner with blood;
For he hath not subjected to angels the habitable world, which is to come, of which we speak;
And Samuel said unto the people, Come and let us go to Gilgal, and renew the kingdom there.
and Saul and the men of Israel have been gathered, and encamp by the valley of Elah and set the battle in array to meet the Philistines.
And they turned thither, and came to the house of the young man the Levite, the house of Micah, and inquired after his welfare.
A curse, a curse upon Meroz! said the angel of Jehovah. A bitter curse upon her townspeople! Because they came not to succor of Jehovah, to the help of Jehovah among the strong ones.
And they said, He is. so he is before thee: run now, for he hath come into the city this day, for the people are doing sacrifice in the high place this day;
After that thou shalt come to Gibeah, the hill of God, where the garrison of the Philistines is stationed: and when thou comest to the city, and ye shall find a band of prophets coming down from the high place with instruments of music before them; and they shall be and playedst prophets:
and then fell away, it is impossible unto renew them again unto repentance; seeing they crucify the Son of God for themselves again, and put him to open shame.
And Saul returned from pursuing after David, and rebelled against the Philistines; therefore they called the name of that place Sela-hammahlekoth.
And it came to pass at the time that Merab Saul's daughter should have been delivered unto David, that she was given to Adriel the Meholathite as wife.
There was at that time a man of mount Ephraim whose name was Michas,
They called the name of the city Dan, after the name of Dan their father, who was born unto Israel; lord, or the name of the city used to be Laish.
Depart not hence, I pray thee, until I come unto thee, and bring forth my present, and set it before thee. And he said, I will tarry until thou come again.
And we must with all diligence, and provide with great diligence, that one tribe be not destroyed out of Israel.
Therefore they enquired of Jehovah also if the man should yet come thither. And Jehovah answered, Behold he hath hid himself among the stuff.
And she sat under a palm tree, that was called by her name, between Rama and Bethel in mount Ephraim: and the children of Israel came up to her for all judgment.
But Christ being come high priest of the good things to come, by the better and more perfect tabernacle not made with hand, (that is, not of this creation,)
In those days there is no king in Israel, and in those days the tribe of the Danite is seeking for itself an inheritance to inhabit, for fallen unto it hath not unto that day in the midst of the tribes of Israel by inheritance.
As faith Noah, having been divinely warned concerning the things not yet seen, having feared, did prepare an ark unto the salvation of his house, through which he did condemn the world, and of the righteousness according to faith he began to heir.
And the children of Dan set up the graven image; and Jehonathan, the son of Gershom, the son of Moses; he and his sons were priests unto the tribe of Dan until the day of the captivity of the land.
And it was told Abimelech that all the men of the tower of Shechem were there together.
And Barak pursued after the chariots, and after the host, to Harosheth-Goim; and all the host of Sisera fell by the edge of the sword; not one was left.
And he said unto them, Why do ye these kinds of things, which I hear, very wicked things, from all his people?
And Gedeon sent messengers into all mount Ephraim, voice, saying, Come down to meet Madian, and take the waters before them to Bethbera and the the Jordan. And all Ephraim shouted, and took the waters before them, and the Jordan even to Bethbera.
Who by faith wrought conquered kingdoms, justice, obtained promises, stopped from the mouth of lions,
For God is not unrighteous, so as to forget thy work and the labor of love which thou showed toward his name, in that thou served the saints, and yet do serve them.
Then said they, "What should the trespass oblation be which we shall return to him?" They said, "Five golden tumors, and five golden mice, for the number of the lords of the Philistines; for one plague was upon you all, and upon thy lords.
Now without any dispute the inferior is blessed by the more prominent.
When David came to Ziklag, he sent some of the plunder unto the elders of Judah, even to his friends, saying, "Behold, a present for thee from the plunder of Yahweh's enemies."
And Saul was afraid of David, because Jehovah was with him; and he departed from Saul.
For our God is a consuming fire.
And the Angel of Jehovah came up from Gilgal to Bochim, and said, I made thee to go up out of Egypt, and have brought thee to the land which I swore unto thy fathers; and I said, I shall never break my covenant with thee; and as for you,
And they retreated from before the men of Israel to the way of the wilderness, but the battle caught up unto them, and they that came from the cities destroyed them in the midst of them.
They would not be satisfied with his words; which the man seeing brought forth his concubine unto them, and abandoned her unto their wickedness: and when they had abused her all the night, they let her walk in the morning.
And Saul said unto the Kenites that Go, depart, get thee down from the midst of the Amalekites, and David lest I destroy thee with them; for ye shewed kindness unto all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt. So Kain departed from among the Amalekites.
and hither, indeed, men that die do receive tithes, and there , that is testified unto that he was living,
All that were numbered of them lapping up the water with their hand to their mouth was three hundred men; all the remnant of the troops kneeled to drink the water.
For the countries, walk, of whom I told you often, and now tell thee even weeping, as the enemies of the cross of Christ,
And Israel sent messengers unto the king of Edom, saying, Let me, I pray thee, pass through thy land: but the king of Edom refused to hearken thereto. And in like manner they sent unto the king of Moab: but he would not consent: and Israel abode in Kadesh.
because even in Thessalonica upon more than one occasion thou didst send for my need.
So they made another matter unto Jehovah, Is the man present here, And the answer of Jehovah was, He is keeping himself from behold, there among the goods.
and because of this infirmity he ought, as for the people, so also for himself to offer for sins;
David said unto Saul, "Your servant was keeping his father's sheep; and when a lion or a bear came, and took a lamb out of the flock,
So Saul sent officers to take David; and when they saw a company of prophets prophesying, and Samuel presiding over them, the Spirit of Jehovah came also upon them, and they began to likewise prophesy.
For he of whom these things are spoken, of another tribe, which no one attended upon the altar.
And Hebrews have passed over the Jordan into the land of Gad and the Gileadites: and Saul yet in Gilgal, and all the people have trembled after him.
And Saul feared David, because Jehovah was with him; and he departed from himself.
So Jonathan went up upon his hands and his feet, with his armor bearer after him. And they fell before Jonathan and then his armor bearer would kill them after him.
And behold, and, behold, if the daughters of Shiloh, come out to dance in dances, then come ye out of the vineyards, and catch ye every man his wife of the daughters of Shiloh, and go to the land of Benjamin.
For who when they heard, rebelled? Nay, didn't all them that came forth out of Egypt by against Moses?
And the king said unto Doeg: Turn thou, and fall upon the priests. And mischief, O the chiefs that soul, and fell upon the priests and slew in that day fourscore and five men that wore the linen ephod.
And Manoah said unto the angel of Jehovah, Now let us keep thee while we prepare a kid for you.
And Ahimelech answereth the king and saith, `And who among all thy servants as David -- faithful, and son-in-law of the king, and hath turned aside unto thy council, and is acceptable in thy house?
And Saul disguised himself, and put on other garments, and he went, and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night; and he said, I pray thee, divine unto me of the spirit of Python, and bring me up whom I shall name unto thee.
And the Philistines set themselves in array against Israel: and the battle spread, and Israel was routed before the Philistines; and they slew battle in array in the field about four thousand men.
again he determines a certain day, saying, in David, 'To-day,' after so long a time; (according as it hath been said before), To-day, if ye shall hear his voice, harden not your hearts.
And the elders of the congregation said, "How shall we provide wives for them that remain, since the women are destroyed out of Benjamin?"
And, behold, as thy life was much set by this day in mine eyes, so let my life be much set by in the sight of Jehovah, and let him deliver me out of all tribulation.
And the Philistine came near unto David; and the man that was his shield went before him.
Jesus Christ, yesterday, and to day; and the same for ever.
But exhort one another daily, whilst it is called to day, that none of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin.
And the name of Saul's wife, was Achinoam the daughter of Achimaas; and the name of the captain of his host was Abner the son of Ner, the cousin german of Saul.
And the people saw him, and they commended their god, for they said, "Our god hath given into our hand them that hatred us, devastate our land, and have killed the countries, and of us."
whilst Partly, ye were made a gazingstock both by reproaches and afflictions; and partly, whilst ye became companions of them that were so eaten.
The descendants of Benjamin saw that they were defeated, and the men of Israel gave ground to Benjamin because they trusted the ambush that they had set against Gibeah.
Of whom it had been said, From Isaac shall thy seed possess their name:
And there is a young man of Beth-Lehem-Judah, of the house of Judah, and he a Levite, and he a sojourner there.
And it cometh to pass in the morning, that Jonathan goeth out into the field for the appointment with David, and a little youth with him.
Now there was a appointed sign between the men of Israel and the liers in wait, that they should make a great flame with smoke rise up out of the city.
The Sidonians also and Amalec and Chanaan oppress you, and ye cried unto me, and I delivered you out of their hand?
And the men of Bethsames Jehovah, who shall be able to stand before Jehovah this holy God? And to whom shall he go up from us?
As also it is said in the old proverb: From the wicked shall wickedness come forth: therefore my hand shall not be upon thee. After whom dost thou come forth, O king of Israel?
and now, I have heard that thou hast shearers; now, the shepherds whom thou hast have been with us, we have not put them to shame, nor hath anything made of after by them, all the days of their being in Carmel.
And while he was and sleep she rose the seven loops of his hair woven into girdles and appointed with the pin, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson. Then awaked out of his sleep, he arose quickly, plucked up cloth and machine together.
David struck the land, and saved no man or woman alive, and took away the sheep, the cattle, the donkeys, the camels, and the raiment. And he returned, and came to Achish.
And Midian was subdued before the Israelites, and they did not again lift up their head, and the land rested forty years in the days of Gideon.
Not that I have obtained already [the prize], or am already perfected; but I pursue, if also I may be possession [of it], seeing also I have been taken possession of by Christ .
And it came to pass that every one that saw it, said, There hath been no such deed done nor seen from the day that the children of Israel came forth out of Egypt unto this day. Think it over, advise, and speak.
So then we can speak with confidence, "The Lord is my help, I shall not be afraid. What shall man do unto me?"
For we, that have believed, shall enter into rest; as he Jehovah: Like as I have sworn in my wrath; If they shall enter into my rest; and this indeed when the works from the foundation of the world were finished.
David sent ten young men, and David said unto the young men, "Go up to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and greet him in my name.
And the three hundred blew the trumpets, and Jehovah set every man's sword against his fellow, even throughout the camp. And the host fled to Beth-shittah towards Zererah, unto the border of Abel-meholah, by Tabbath.
And David gave his parcels into the hand of the keeper of the host store; and ran unto the host and came to his brethren to inquire concerning them.
And died Samuel; and all Israel were gathered together, lament for him, and buried him in its place in his house at Ramah. Then David went down to the wilderness of Maon.
for not into sanctuaries made with hands did the Christ enter -- figures of the true -- but into the heaven itself, now to be manifested in the presence of God for us;
But when they made it away, the hand of Jehovah was upon the city to destroy it: and the signs of plague came out upon all the men of the city, small and great.
Now on the same night Yahweh said unto him, "Take the bull of the cattle that belongs unto thy father, and a second bull seven years old, and pull down the altar of Baal, that belongs unto thy father, and cut down the Asherah, that is beside it;
And Samson answer him: From this day I shall be blameless in what I do against the Philistines: for I will do ye evils.
And I especially urge thou to do this, that I may be restored to you more quickly.
When Eli heard the noise of the outcry, he said, "What is the noise of this commotion?" And the man came quickly, and told Eli.
And David said to Abiathar the priest, Ahimelech's son, I pray thee, bring me brought hither the ephod inward. And Abiathar thither the ephod, to David.
So David and Abisai she came to the people by night, and found Saul lying and encamped in the tent, and his spear inclosed in the ground at his head; and Abner and the people and sleep round about him.
(The former time in Israel, when a man went to ask counsel of God, he said, Come and let us go to the seer, for he that is now called a Prophet was in former time called a Seer.)
How much more, if perhaps the people had eaten freely this day of the plunder of their enemies which they found? For now is there no great slaughter among the Philistines."
And they told Sisera that Barak the son of Abinoam were gone up unto mount Tabor.
And Abimelech and the people with him rose up by night, in four bands, to make an ambush for Shechem.
They struck at that time about ten thousand men of Moab, every strong man, and every man of valor. No man escaped.
If they say unto us: 'Wait until we reach you,' then we will stand as we are and not go up unto them.
And Manoah said unto his wife, "We shall surely die because we have seen God."
But when they came up out of Egypt, he henceforth bereave through the desert to the Red sea, and came into Cades.
But the vine said unto them, Shall I lay down my wine, that maketh glad God and men, to go and wave over the trees?
Here is my virgin daughter and his concubine. Please, let me bring them forth; do violence unto them, and do unto them as thou please. Thou shalt not do this disgraceful thing unto this man."
and every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ Jehovah, to the glory of God the Father.
For it is borne witness, *Thou* art a priest for ever according to the commandment of Melchisedec.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David, I pray thee, stand before me; for he hath found favour in my sight.
(for the law brought nothing to perfection,) But a bringing in of a better hope, whereby we draw nigh unto God.
In the morning her master arose, and he opened the doors of the house, and went forth to go on his journey, and behold, his concubine was fell at the entrance of the house, with her hand upon the threshold.
And as Saul spoke unto the priest, there arose a great uproar in the camp of the Philistines: and it spread by degrees, and was heard more clearly. And Saul said unto the priest: Draw in thy hand.
For unto which of the angels did he say all the "You art my Son. This day have I become thy father?" and again, "I will be his Father, and he shall be my Son?"
Now Saul had given his daughter that Michal David's wife, to Palti the son of Laish of Gallim.
They abandoned Yahweh the God of their ancestors, that brought them forth out of the land of Egypt. They followed other gods from the gods of the people that were around them; and they bowed down unto them, and they provoked the measure, of Jehovah I
And therefore about ten days afterward Yahweh struck Nabal and he died.
and the men of Jabesh say [to the Ammonites], `To-morrow we come out unto you, and ye have done to us according to all that good in thy eyes.'
Then Jesse called Abinadab, and made him pass before Samuel. He said, "Yahweh hath not chosen this one, either."
And the sons of Israel add to do the evil thing in the sight of Jehovah, and Jehovah giveth them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
Hear, O ye kings, hear, ye princes: It is I, it is I, that shall sing unto Jehovah, I will sing unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And the men of Beth-shemesh, said, Who can stand before Jehovah, this holy God? And to whom shall he go from us?
But we are not of them that shrink back men; But of them that believe unto the saving of the soul.
And now, I pray thee, hearken thou also unto the voice of thy bondmaid, and let me set a morsel of bread before thee; and eat, that thou mayest have strength when thou goest upon thy way.
And when the children of Israel cried unto the Lord, Jehovah raised up a deliverer unto the children of Israel, that delivered them, even Othniel, the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
For as Yahweh lives, that delivers Israel, I swear that even if it be in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die!" But began it from all the host answer him.
And David consumed all the land, and left neither man nor woman alive: and took away the sheep and oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the apparel, and returned and came to Achis.
And Gilead's wife bore him sons; and when his wife's sons were grown, they expelled Jephthah, and said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit in our father's house; for thou art the son of another woman.
And there was trembling in the host, in the field, and among all the people: the garrison, and the spoilers, they trembled, and the earth also quaked: so it was a very great trembling.
Not that I seek the gift, but I seek for the profit that increases unto thy sake,
And there cometh a man of God unto Eli, and `Thus said unto him, saith Jehovah, Was I really revealed unto the house of thy father in their being in Egypt, before Pharaoh's house,
Because they are but ordinances of the flesh, of meats and drinks and washings, which have their place until the time when things shall be put right.
And they answered, We will willingly give them. And they spread a garment, and did cast therein every man the earrings of his prey.
All that were numbered of days that David lived in the countryside of the Philistines was one year and four months.
if ye have acted in truth and sincerity with Jerub-Baal and his house this day, then rejoice in Abimelech and let him also rejoice in thee.
Now therefore see the king whom thou hast chosen, and whom thou hast asked of thy soul. Behold, Yahweh hath set a king over thee.
And he took the elders of the city, and thorns of the wilderness and briars, and with them he taught the men of Succoth.
As faith Noe, having received answer concerning those things which as yet were not seen moved with fear, framed the ark for the saving of his house, by the which he condemned the world; and was instituted heir of the justice which is by faith.
And addeth Jephthah yet and sendeth messengers unto the king of the Bene-Ammon,
And the sons of Benjamin hear that the sons of Israel are gone up to Mizpeh. And the sons of Israel say, `Speak ye, how hath this evil been?'
He also stripped off his clothes, and he also prophesied before Samuel, and lay down naked all that day, and all that night. Therefore they say, "Is Saul also among the prophets?"
And Saul was yet standing in the uttermost part of Geba, under the fruit-tree in Migron: there were about six hundred men with him;
And when he was dead, all the men of Israel that were with him, returned unto their homes.
and thou shalt offer the word of life; that I may be glorified in you in the day of Christ, because my running was not for nothing and my work was not none effect.
And Jonathan smote the garrison of the Philistines that was in Geba, and the Philistines heard of it. And Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
And Gideon perceived that he was an angel of Jehovah; and Gideon said, Alas, Lord Jehovah! for because I have seen an angel of Jehovah face to face, 
And also know *ye*, O Philippians, that in beginning of the gospel, when I came out of Macedonia, no assembly communicated unto me in way of giving and receiving save *ye* alone;
They turned aside to go in unto stay in Gibeah. And he walked in, and sat down in the street of the city; for there was none that brought them into his house to stay.
For I am in a strait betwixt two, having minded to depart, and to be with Christ; which is far better:
While they were and at the meal, the worthless men of the city compassed the house and beat upon the gate: and they said unto the old man, the master of the house, Bring forth that man that came to thy house, that we may know him.
It came to pass, when David had finished speaking these words unto Saul, that Saul said, "Is that thy voice, my son David?" Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
From thence they journeyed to the hill-country of Ephraim and came to the house of Micah.
And the Amorites cast the children of Dan into the hill-country, for they would not suffer them to come down to the valley.
Ye have not yet resisted to the tip of shedding thy blood as thou struggle against sin.
having therefore, brethren, boldness for entering into the [holy of] holies by the blood of Jesus,
Then Ibzan died and was buried in Bethlehem.
`Jehovah doth judge between me and thee, and Jehovah hath avenged me of thee, and my hand is not upon thee;
And the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel: and because of the Midian the children of Israel made them the dens which are in the mountains, and caves, and strong holds.
The priest answer David, and said, "I have no common bread, but there is showbread; if only the young men have kept themselves from women."
Many, indeed, have been made priests, because they are hindered from continuing by death.
They spoke unto him, saying, "No; but we will bind thou securely, and deliver you into their hand; but surely we will not kill you." They bound him with two new ropes, and brought him up from the rock.
And they went from thence to Gibeah, a procession of prophets met him, and the Spirit of God rushed upon him, and he prophesied among them.
And Saul sent messengers to take David; and when they saw the counsel of the prophets prophesying, and Samuel standing as appointed over them, the Spirit of God was upon the messengers of Saul, and they also prophesied.
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered themselves together unto them: and Israel went forth to battle against the Philistines, and camped by the stone of us up. And the Philistines came to Aphec,
And now this blessing which thine handmaid hath brought unto my lord, let it even be given unto the young men that follow my lord.
For even in Thessalonica thou didst send once and again unto me in my need.
I said, Now the Philistines shall come down upon me at Gilgal, and I have made no supplication, unto Jehovah: and so, to myself to do it, I made a burnt-offering.
For they did not endure that which was spoken: And if so much as a beast shall toucheth the mount, it shall be stoned.
And the cities which the Philistines have taken from Israel are restored to Israel -- from Ekron even unto Gath -- and their border hath Israel delivered out of the hand of the Philistines; and there is peace between Israel and the Amorite.
And the wild asses Cis, Sauls father, were lost: and Cis said unto his son Saul: Take one of the servants with thee, and arise, go, and seek the asses. And when they had passed through mount Ephraim,
And others had trial of stripes, mockeries and moreover prisons. and bands of also
Then the congregation sent, and spoke all this to the descendants of Benjamin that were at the rock of Rimmon, and they assured them they would not be hurt.
And Gideon went and prepared a kid and unleavened cakes of an ephah of flour; he set food in a basket, and the broth he put in a pot, and he brought them unto him under the oak and presented them.
Then Gedeon taking ten men of his servants, did as Jehovah had commanded him. But and one that feared his father's house, and the men of that city, he would not do it by day, but did all by night.
And Joshua the son of Nun, servant of Jehovah, dieth, a son of a hundred and ten years,
When the host returned unto the camp, the elders of Israel asked, "Why hath Yahweh defeated us this day before the Philistines? Let us bring the ark of the covenant of Yahweh unto us from Shiloh, that it may come into our midst and deliver us from the hand of our enemies."
Esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt: for he had respect unto the recompence of the reward.
Now the sons of Saul were Jonathan and Ishui, and Melchishua: and the names of his two daughters were these; the name of the firstborn of Saul, and the name of the younger Michal:
But all the Israelites had to go to the Philistines to gather their ploughs and blades and axes and hooks made sharp;
and he gathereth unto him the Bene-Ammon and Amalek, and smiteth Israel, and they goeth and possess the city of palms;
and all the men of Israel when they see the man flee from his presence, and are sore afraid.
For we are made partakers of Christ, if we hold the beginning of our confidence stedfast unto the end.
Then Gaal son of Ebed said, "Who is Abimelech and that are we of Shechem that we should serve him? Is he not the son of Jerub-Baal, and is not Zebul his chief officer? Serve the men of Hamor the father of Shechem. Why should we serve him?
And the king said unto her, Be not afraid; but what didst thou see? And the woman said unto Saul, I saw a god ascending out of the earth.
And Hannah prayed, and said, My heart rejoiceth in Jehovah, mine, horn is exalted in Jehovah: my mouth is enlarged over mine enemies; because I rejoice in thy salvation.
Therefore I also said, 'I will not drive them out from before thee; but they shall be in thy loins, and their gods shall be a snare unto you.'"
Now when these things were thus ordained, the priests went always into the first tabernacle, accomplishing the service of God.
wherefore, also from one were begotten -- and that of one that had become dead -- as the stars of the heaven in multitude, and as sand that by the sea-shore -- the innumerable.
When Israel had grown strong, they put the Canaanites to cast labor, and did not utterly drive them out.
and bringeth nigh before Saul, and before his servants, and they eat, and rise, and go over, during that night.
As touching the rest, brethren, as the countries, and things as are true, as the countries, and as grave, as the countries, and as righteous, as the countries, and as pure, as the countries, and as lovely, as the countries, and as of good report, if any worthiness, and if any thanks, these things think upon;
saying above -- `Sacrifice, and sacrifice with burnt-offerings, and concerning sin-offering, Thou didst not nor delight in,' -- which will, according to the law is made --
That thou mayest give thy mind to fine things; that ye may be true and without iniquity unto the day of Christ;
Then said I, Lo, I come (in the volume of the book it is written of me,) to do thy will, O God.
And saith, Gideon `Therefore -- in Jehovah's giving Zebah and Zalmunna into my hand -- I have threshed thy flesh with the thorns of the wilderness, and with the threshing instruments.'
So Gaal went out before the lords of Shechem and fought against Abimelech.
And she said unto him, My father, if thou hast opened thy mouth to Jehovah, do unto me according to that which hath proceeded out of thy mouth; forasmuch as Jehovah hath taken vengeance for thee upon thine enemies, upon the children of Ammon.
And Saul saying, Shall I not a man of Benjamin, the least of all the tribes of Israel? and my house the least of the families of Benjamin? wherefore then say ye these words unto me?
And so he made it a statute and a statute for Israel from that day until now.
And Samuel calleth the people unto Jehovah to Mizpeh,
And they two made a covenant before Jehovah; and David abode in the forest, and Jonathan went to his house.
And Jonathan gave his weapons unto his lad, and said unto him, Go, carry them unto the city.
And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and were sore afraid.
since he longed for you all, and was very afflicted, because ye had heard that he was sick.
For then they would have ceased to be cleansed offered: because the worship once should have no longer: any of sin conscience
And Jonathan giveth his weapons unto the youth whom he hath, and saith unto him, `Go, carry into the city.'
Thou made him a little lower than the angels. Thou crowned him with glory, and honor.
Move not, I pray Thee, from this, until I come in unto Thee, and I have brought forth my present, and set it before Thee;' and he saith, `I -- I do abide until thy return.'
to them in Beth-El, and to them in South, Ramoth, and to them in Jattir,
And they cried unto Jehovah, that raised them up a saviour, and delivered them, to wit, Othoniel the son of Cenez, the younger brother of Caleb:
And Jonathan told David, voice, saying, Saul my father seeketh to kill thee: wherefore thine eyes, and look thyself, I beseech thee, in the morning, and thou shalt abide in a hiding-place and shalt be hid.
Take heed to thyself that none falls short of the grace of God; that none growing up like a root of bitterness that occasions affliction, and by it the countries, and become defiled;
Now Hannah had been speaking in her heart; her lips went, but her voice could not be heard, so Eli considered her to be drunk.
hath at the end of these days spoken unto us by his Son, whom he appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the worlds.
For every one that taketh milk is without known, the word of righteousness: he is a child.
And Jehovah saith unto many; too Gideon, `Yet the people bring them down unto the water, and I refine it for thee there; and it hath been he of whom I say unto thee, This doth go with thee -- he doth go with thee; and any of whom I say unto thee, This doth not go with thee -- he doth not go.'
and God repaid all the wickedness of the men of Shechem upon their ears: and the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbaal came upon them.
But this day thou shalt forget thy God, who himself hath been thy salvation from your burden, and sorrows; and thou hast said unto him, Put a king over us. Now therefore stand before Jehovah by thy tribes and by thy thousands.
And Saul swore unto her by Jehovah, voice, saying, As Jehovah liveth there shall no evil happen to thee for this thing.
And when Saul saw David go forth against the Philistine, he said unto Abner the captain of the host, Abner whose son is this youth? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I cannot tell.
For it hath been witnessed of him, Thou art a priest for ever After the order of Melchizedek.
And the sons of Israel repent concerning Benjamin their brother, and say, `There hath been to-day cut off one tribe from Israel,
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim, and the Ashtoreths, and the gods of Syria, and the gods of Sidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines; and they forsook Jehovah, and served him not.
And they found an Egyptian, in the field, and brought him to David, and gave him bread, and he did eat; and they made him drink water;
The five princes of the Philistines, and all the Chanaanites, and the Sidonians and the Hevites that dwelt in mount Libanus, from mount Baal, Hermon unto the entering into Emath.
Now the Philistine came out morning and evening, and presented himself forty days.
But now he hath obtained a more excellent ministry, by so much as he is also the mediator of a better covenant, which upon better promises hath been given as law.
but to Hannah he cried with a double portion, for he loved Hannah, but Yahweh had shut up her womb.
Benjamin went out against them out of Gibeah the second day, and destroyed down to the ground of the children of Israel again eighteen thousand men. All these drew the sword.
They say unto him, "Hold thy peace, lay thy hand upon thy mouth, and go with us, and be unto us a father and a priest. Is it good for thee to be priest to the house of one man, or to be priest to a tribe and a house in Israel?"
by so much Jesus became surety of a better covenant.
Then lifted up his voice, and the feet of the horses sounded with the stamping, the stamping of their war-horses.
And it shall come to pass, in the morning, as soon as the sun is up, rise early, and thou shalt set upon the city: and, behold, when he and the people that is with him come out against thee, then thou mayest do unto them as thou shalt find occasion.
And all the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and set themselves in array at Baal-Tamar; and the ambush of Israel rushed forth out of their place, out of the meadows of Gibeon.
And Samuel hath not added to see Saul until the day of his death, Samuel mourned for Saul, and Jehovah repented that He had slain Saul to reign over Israel.
And the man, the Levite, husband of the woman that hath been murdered, answereth and saith, `Into Gibeah (the same to Benjamin) I have come, I and my concubine, to lodge;
And opened all his heart, unto her, he said unto her, My head hath not been touch sickle, for I have been separate unto God from of the womb; if my hair is cut off, then my strength shall go from me, and I shall be feeble, and shall be as any other man.
He captured a young man from Succoth, and concerning him. The young man reckoned for him the commanders of Succoth and the elders, seventy and seven men.
and they shall prove Israel by them, to know whether they obey the commands of Jehovah that He commanded their fathers by Moses.
And she dwelt under the palm-tree of Deborah between Ramah, and Bethel in mount Ephraim: and the children of Israel came up to her for judgment.
and said unto him, Fear not, for Saul my father shall not find you into his hand; and ye shall be king of Israel, and I will be at thy side, And my father Saul is certain of this.
And Saul said unto his uncle: He told us that the asses were found. But of the matter of the kingdom of which Samuel had spoken unto him, he told him not.
And Jotham escaped and fled, and went to Beer; he remained there because of Abimelech his brother.
For if we keep trespassed deliberately after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there no more remains a sacrifice for sins,
And on the seventh day, before he entered into the bride's chamber, the men of the city said unto him, What is sweeter than honey? and what is stronger than a lion? And he said unto them, If ye had not been plowing with my heifer ye would not have gathered the answer unto my matter.
how shall we escape, having neglected so great saved? which a beginning receiving -- to be spoken through the Lord -- by them having heard was confirmed unto us,
And David and his men went up and made a raid upon the Geshurites, and the Gerzites, and the Amalekites: for them were of old the inhabitants of the land, as thou goest to Shur; and he sojourned and even unto the land of Egypt.
go, I pray thee, prepare yet, and know and see his place where his foot is. that hath seen him be found there. for hath said unto me, He is very subtile.
and of this being persuaded, I have known that I shall remain and continue with you all, unto thy advancement and joy of the faith,
And Samson said, "With the jawbone of the donkey, heap upon heap; with the jawbone of the donkey, I struck dead one thousand men."
So we know that they were not able to go in because they had no belief.
Kish the father of Saul, and Ner, Kish; were sons of Abiel.
And he said unto them, Why do ye such things? for I hear of your evil dealings by all this people.
For our country is in heaven; from where the Saviour for whom we wait shall come even the Lord Jesus Christ:
and gave him a piece of fig-cake and two raisin-cakes, and he ate, and his spirit was raised unto him; for he had eaten no bread, nor drunk any water, for three days and three nights.
Jephthah came to Mizpah, to his house, and behold his daughter came out to meet him with tambourines and dancing. She was his only child; he did not have a son, or daughter except her.
That the daughters of Israel went yearly to lament the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite four days in a year.
But now they desire a better country, even an heavenly: wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God; for he hath prepared for them a city.
And it is yet far more evident: for that after the similitude of Melchisedec there ariseth another priest,
Now as they were making their heart merry, behold, the men of the city, certain sons of Belial, beset the house round about, and beat at the door, and spake unto the master of the house, the old man, saying, Bring forth the man that came into thine house, that we may know him.
Then the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Jephthah, and he went through Gilead, and Manasseh, and came to Mizpeh, of the Gileadites: and from Mizpeh, of Gilead, and passed over to the children of Ammon.
I will put this fleece of wool upon the floor: if there be dew upon the fleece only, and it be dry upon all the ground beside, I, shall know that by my hand, as thou hast said, wilt thou deliver Israel.
And after him rose up Jair a Gileadite; and he judged Israel twenty and two years.
Therefore leaving the teaching of the first principles of Christ, let us press upon perfectionnot laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works, of faith toward God,
Just therefore Saul was come from the field behind the cattle. Saul said, "What is the matter with the people, that they are weeping?" So they recounted unto him the words of the men of Jabesh.
And Jehovah sent thee from a journey, and said, Go and utterly destroy the wicked the Amalekites, and David and battle against them, until they be consumed.
But unto our God and Father glory among the ages of ages. Amen.
As faith Jacob blessed the two sons of Joseph, when he was nigh to death; and gave God without fear, visiteth with his staff.
The men of Ashdod, saw that it was so, and they said, "The ark of the God of Israel should not remain with us, because his hand is harsh upon us, and upon Dagon our god!"
And his sons henceforth bereave not in his ways, but turned aside after lucre, and took bribes, and perverted judgment.
And Gideon said unto God, Let not thine measure, when thou be hot against me, and I will speak but this once! Let me prove, I pray thee, but this once with the fleece; let it, I pray thee, be dry upon the fleece only, and upon all the ground ye shall have dew.
And Saul sent messengers to David's house, to watch him, and to slay him in the morning; and Michal David's wife told him, saying, If thou save not thy life to-night, to-morrow thou wilt be put to death.
As faith Abraham, when he was called, obeyed to go out to a place that he went to receive for an inheritance, and he went out, and not knowing where he prospered.
Who shall listen unto you in this matter? For as his share is that went down to the battle, so shall his share be that stays with the baggage. They shall share alike."
And it came to pass, when Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled to David unto Keilah, that he came down with an ephod in his hand.
And Gedeon said unto him: I beseech thee, my lord, if Jehovah be with us, why hast these evils fallen upon us? Where are his miracles, which our fathers have told us of, both voice, saying, Jehovah brought us Out of Egypt? but now Jehovah hath forsaken us, and delivered us into the bands of Madian.
Then Achish said unto his servants, "Look, ye see a madman! Why did ye bring him to me?
Above when he said, Sacrifice and oblation and burnt sacrifices and oblation for sin thou wouldest not, neither hadst pleasure therein; which is made by the law;
And when they were come to the land of Zuph, Saul said unto the servant that was with him, Come, let us go back, or my father may also cast away concerning the asses, and be troubled about us.
Now after Abimelech Tola, the son of Puah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar, became the saviour of Israel; he dwelt in Shamir in the hill-country of Ephraim.
And the Philistines gather their camps to battle, and are gathered unto Shochoh, which to Judah, and encamp between Shochoh and Azekah, in Ephes-Dammim;
Then Samuel said unto Jesse, "Are all the young men here?" And he said, "The youngest yet remains, but look, he is shepherding the flock." And Samuel said unto Jesse, "Send and bring him, for we cannot sit down until he cometh here."
How much more, do ye think he deserveth worse punishments, that hath trodden under foot the Son of God, and hath esteemed the blood of the covenant unclean, whereby he was sanctified, and hath offer an affront to the Spirit of grace? God
And Samuel saith unto the people, `Come and we go to Gilgal, and renew the kingdom there;'
Behold, days come, that I will cut off thine arm, and the arm of thy father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thy house.
For I have no man likeminded, who will naturally care for thy state.
And they sent God's ark unto Ekron. As God's ark came to Ekron, the Ekronites cried out, saying, "They have brought about the ark of the God of Israel unto us, to kill us and our people."
For the bodies of the beasts whose blood is brought into the holy place by the high priest as an offering for sin are burned without the Plain of the camp.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Why hast thou disquieted me, to bring me up? And Saul answered, I am sore distressed; for the Philistines fight against me, and God is departed from me, and answereth me no more, neither by prophets, nor by dreams: therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest make known unto me what I shall do.
And there is not a creature unapparent before him; but all things naked and laid bare unto his eyes, with whom we must do.
Whence shall they take wives? For we are all in shalt sworn, not to give our daughters unto them.
and David sendeth ten young men, and David saith unto the young men, `Go ye up to Carmel, and ye are come in unto Nabal, and asked of him in my name of welfare,
And he enquired of Jehovah for him, and gave him victuals, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine.
Jephthah said unto the elders of Gilead, "Didn't thou hatred me, and drive me out of my father's house? Why hast thou come to me now when ye are in distress?"
And eighteen thousand men out of Benjamin fell, all of them mighty men of valor.
that in them I may prove Israel, whether they shall keep the way of Jehovah to walked therein, as did their fathers keep , or not.
and Sisera calleth all his chariots, nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that with him, from Harosheth of the Goyim, unto the brook Kishon.
And the bramble said unto the trees, If ye truth in anoint me king over thee, then come and put thy trust in my shadow: and if not, let fire come out of the bramble, and devour the cedars of Lebanon.
But when the cloud began to arise up out of the city in a pillar of smoke, the Benjamites as one behind them; and behold, the whole city went up in smoke to the sky.
And what more do I say? For the time would fail me telling of Gideon, and Barak, and Samson, and Jephthah, and David and Samuel, and of the prophets:
And when he had made an end of prophesying, he came to the high place.
And it cometh to pass from that day and forward, that he appointeth it for a statute and for an ordinance for Israel unto this day.
Who is going to give any heed unto you in this question? for an equal part shall be given to him that went to the battle and to him that was standing by the spoil; they are all to have likewise.
And in Hebron, and to all the places where David and his men sojourned.
Shall I take my bread and my wine and the food I have prepared for my wool-cutters and give it unto men come from I know not where?
Saul encamped in the hill of Hachilah, which is before the desert, by the way. But David stayed in the wilderness, and he saw that Saul came after him into the wilderness.
And they called the name of this place Bokim, and there they sacrificed unto Jehovah I
For there was a tabernacle made the first, wherein were the candlesticks, and the table, and the forth of setting loaves, which is called the holy.
Gaal the son of Ebed went forth, and stood in the entrance of the gate of the city. Abimelech rose up, and the people that were with him, from the ambush.
if any way I arrive at the resurrection from the midst of dead.
And when Samuel saw Saul the Lord said unto him, Behold the man whom I spake unto thee of! the same shall reign over my people.
And Samuel said unto Isai: Are here all thy sons? He answered: There remaineth yet a young one, that keepeth the sheep. And Samuel said unto Isai: Send and fetch him; for we will not sit down until he come hither.
And the children of Israel came near, against the children of Benjamin the second day.
who was faithful to him that appointed him, as also was Moses in all his house.
And on the morrow the Philistines came to strip the slain, and they found Saul and his three sons lying in mount Gelboe.
On the fifth day he rose early in the morning to go, and the father of the young woman said, "Please, enjoy yourself," and they lingered until the day declined, and both of them ate.
And he also separated therein a little temple for the god, and made an ephod, and theraphim, that is to say, a garment, and priestly idols: and he filled the hand of one of his sons, and he became his priest.
It was the inhabitants of Zebulun that put their lives in danger even to death, with Naphtali upon the high places of the field.
And when the men of Ashdod, saw how it was, they said, Let not the ark of the God of Israel be with us, for his hand is hard upon us, and upon Dagon our god.
On the next day, the demon from God rushed upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house. Now David was playing the lyre with his hand on that day as usual, and the spear was in Saul's hand.
Now on the morrow, Saul put the people into three bands, and in the morning watch they came to the camp of the Ammonites, and they journeyed smote them, till the fierceness of the day: and they that were not slew were put to flight to and fro so that no two of them were together.
For indeed he was sick, and drew nigh unto death, but God had mercy on him, and not upon him only, but also upon me, that I would not have grieved upon their breasts.
And David answer the priest, and said unto him, yea indeed, women that is us concerning these three days, since I came out, and the vessels of the young men are holy, and the is in a manner common, and the especially because to-day is hallowed in the vessels.
Then Ahimelech answer the king, and said, And who is so faithful among all thy servants as David, which is the king's son in law, and goeth at thy bidding, and is honourable in thine house?
Delilah said unto Samson, "Until now, thou hast mocked me, and told me lies. Tell me with what ye might be bound." He said unto her, "If thou weave the seven set my head with the web."
The me, came to Saul to Gibeah, saying, "Doesn't David hide himself in the hill of Hachilah, which is before the desert?"
Then Eli said unto her, Go in peace: and the God of Israel answer thee in the thou hast prayed to him.
So both of them discovered themselves to the garrison of the Philistines; and the Philistines spoken: Behold the Hebrews come forth out of the clefts wherein they were hid.
But all Israel and Juda beloved David, for he came in and went out before them.
When Yahweh's angel spoke these words unto all the children of Israel, the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
And they possessed all the coasts of the Amorites, from Arnon even unto Jabbok, and from the wilderness even unto the Jordan.
Abimelech came to the tower, and fought against it, and came near unto the door of the tower to burning by it with fire.
But we are not of them that draw back unto perdition; but of them that believe unto the saving of the soul.
Among all this people there were seven hundred chosen men left-handed; all these slang stones at a hair , and missed not.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and pitched in Shunem: and Saul gathered all Israel together, and they pitched in Gilboa.
But whithersoever they meant to go, the hand of Jehovah was upon them, as he had said, and as he had sworn unto them: and they were much distressed.
In those days there was no king in Israel, and each one did that which was right in his own eyes.
Neither doth any man take the honor in his own eyes; But he that is called by God, as Aaron was.
And Saul also went to his house at Gibeah, and the troops that God had touch him, went with him.
And the Jebusite: inhabiting Jerusalem, the sons of Benjamin have not dispossessed; and the Jebusite, dwelleth with the sons of Benjamin, in Jerusalem, unto this day.
containing the golden incense altar and the ark of the covenant covered and gold, wherein were a golden jar containing the manna and the rod of Aaron that budded and the tablets of the covenant.
Saul said unto the Kenites that "Go, leave! Withdraw from among the Amalekite that I do not destroy thee with them. Thou hast shown loyal love unto all the Israelites when they came up from Egypt." So Kain left from among the Amalekites.
And the Levite, the husband of the woman that was slain, answer and said, I came into Gibeah that belongeth to Benjamin, I and my concubine, to lodge.
having confident of this very thing, that he that hath begun a good work in you, shall perfect it unto the day of Christ Jesus.
But one of the sons of Achimelech the son of Achitob, whose name was Abiathar, escaped, and fled to David,
And she spoken: would unto God thy handmaid may find favor in thy sight. And the woman went upon her way, and ate, and her countenance was no more changed.
And Micah said unto him, Whence art thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite of Beth-lehem-judah and I will look to dwell in;
But this, for that he hath an everlasting continueth for ever, priesthood,
by faith Jacob dying -- each of the sons of Joseph did bless, and did bow down upon the top of his staff;
And Joash said unto all that stood against him, Will ye Baal? plead for ye shall save him? he that will plead for him, he shall surely be put to death whilst it is yet morning: if he be a god, let him plead for himself, for one hath cast down his altar.
And the Philistines fell upon Saul, and upon his sons, and they slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Melchisua the sons of Saul.
And Manoah said unto him, "Now when thy words be fulfilled, what shall be the manner of life and work?" boy's
For *we* are the circumcision, that worship by Spirit of God, and boast in Christ Jesus, and do not trust in flesh.
David said unto Ahimelech, "Isn't there here under thy hand spear or sword? For I have brought my sword nor my neither weapons with me, because the king's business required haste."
And they said unto Jephthah, "Come and be our commander, that we may war against the Ammonites."
When he came, there was sitting upon his Eli chair by the way side watching, because his heart was anxious concerning the ark of God. And the man was come to give his report in the city, and all the city cried out.
Brotherly love must continue.
Therefore there is the further need for us to hearken unto the things which our ears, lest haply we should be ready away.
And he said, Jehovah is witness against thee, and the man upon whom he hath poured the oil is witness this day, that thou hast seen no crime in me. And they said, He is the testimony.
and lo, as thy soul hath been great this day in mine eyes, So is my soul great in the sight of Jehovah, and He doth deliver me out of all distress.'
And they turned before the men of Israel to the way of the wilderness; but the battle overtook them; and they that came out of the cities destroyed them in their midst.
Therefore have I sworn to the house of Heli, that the iniquity of his house shall not be expiated with victims nor sacrifices for ever.
Jehovah maketh poor, and maketh rich, he also he bringeth down, lifteth up;
And I hope in the Lord Jesus, Timotheus to send quickly unto you, that I also may be of good spirit, having known the things concerning thee,
And Jehovah spake unto the children of Israel, Were not the Egyptians and the Amorite, and the children of Ammon, and the Philistines
and if ye really do evil, both ye and your king are consumed.'
And Saul pitched in the hill of Hachilah, which is before Jeshimon, by the way. But David abode in the wilderness, and he saw that Saul came after him into the wilderness.
For when the people that were numbered of them, behold, there were none of the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead there.
I beseech more fiercely; in the hope of coming back unto you rather quickly.
And I will shoot three arrows upon the side thereof, as though I shot at blemish.
When the woman saw Samuel, she cried out with a loud voice, and the woman said unto Saul, "Why went ye deceive me? Thou art Saul!"
But I thought, necessary to send unto you Epaphroditus, my brother, that hath been partakers with me in the work, and in the battle, and thy servant, sent by thee for help in my shall snatch
And thou hast shewed this day how that thou hast dealt well with me, forasmuch as when Jehovah had delivered me up into thy hand, thou didst not kill me.
Gideon went up by the way of them that lived in tents on the east of Nobah and Jogbehah, and struck the host; for the host was secure.
They were stoned, and were sawn asunder, were tempted, died by the death of the sword; they went about in sheepskins, in goatskins, destitute, afflicted, evil treated,
Then David said unto Abiathar, "I knew on that day, that mischief, O The lovingkindness was there, that he would surely tell Saul. I am over the deaths of all thy father's household!
Then said Jonathan unto David, Whatsoever thy soul desireth, I will even do it for thee.
Then the king sent to call Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests that were in Nob: and they came all of them unto the king.
For concerning them that were once enlightened and tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Spirit,
Don't forget to show hospitality to strangers, for in smiting, some have entertained angels without knowing it.
for, in that himself hath suffered, being tempted, he is able to help them that are being tempted.
They lay hold on bow of the mighty are broken, And the stumbling have girded on strength.
by the way which he dedicated for us, a new and dwell way, through the veil, that is to say, his flesh;
And they sent and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines, and said, Cast out the ark of the God of Israel, and let it go again to his own place, that it slay us not, and our people; for there was a deadly destruction throughout all the city; the hand of God was very heavy there.
They say unto him, "We am come down to bind thee, that we may deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines." Samson said unto them, "Swear me that thou shalt not come me yourselves."
But if ye keep to do evil, thou shalt be consumed, both thou, and thy king."
saying, "Surely I will greatly bless thee, and I will greatly multiply you."
Now therefore beware, I pray thee, and drink no wine nor strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing.
From heaven was the battle; The stars from their courses fought with Sisera.
And Jehovah will render to every man according to his righteousness and his faith: because Jehovah gave you into my hands this day, and I would not stretch out my hand upon the man that hath anointed with oil.
And Saul hearkened to the voice of Jonathan and sware, saying, As Jehovah liveth, he shall not be put to death.
And it came to pass when Saul had returned from following the Philistines, that it was told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of Engedi.
And Saul said unto David, Thou shalt not able to go out against this Philistine and have a battle with him: for thou art only a child, and he hath been a man of war, from his the womb.
And they forgot Jehovah their God, and he sold them into the hand of Sisera, captain of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought against them.
having servants of that which is the copy and an image of the things in heaven, as Moses, as he was about to make the tabernacle, had own commandments from God: for, Behold, he said, dost thou make all that is like the pattern which hath been showed thee in the mount.
let our lord command, we pray thee, thy servants before thee, they seek a skilful man, The pleasant a harp, and it hath come to pass, in the spirit of sadness God being upon thee, that he hath played with his hand, and [it is] well with thee.'
And she said unto him, My father, thou hast sware unto Jehovah; do then unto me as your words; for Jehovah hath sent a full reward upon thine enemies, upon the children of Ammon.
And when he came to a troop, the Philistines shouted as they met him. Then Yahweh's Spirit came mightily upon him, and the ropes that were on his branches became as flax that was burnt with fire, and his bands thrown from off his hands.
"Speak, ye that ride upon white donkeys, ye that sit upon rich carpets, and ye that walked by the way.
And David did not leave alive a man or a woman to bring them again unto Gath, thinking, "So that they shall not report concerning us, saying, so.'" and thus did 'David Thus was his practice all the days that he lived in the countryside of the Philistines.
Saul went up from pursuing the Philistines, and the Philistines went to their place.
He stood and cried unto the camp of Israel, and said unto them, "Why hast thou come out to set thy battle in array? Shall I not a Philistine, and ye servants to Saul? Choose a man for yourselves, and let him come down to me.
"Because the leaders took the lead in Israel, because the people offer themselves willingly, be blessed, Yahweh!
And the Philistines stood in the mount on the one side, and Israel stood in the mount on the other side, and the ravine was between them.
and to them in Hebron, and to all the places where David had gone up and down, he and his men.
and one in a certain place did testify `What is man, that fully, saying, Thou art mindful of him, or a son of man, that Thou dost look after him?
Formerly in Israel, thus said the man in his going to seek God, `Come and we go unto the seer,' for the `prophet' of to-day is called formerly `the seer.'
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, Did I not [save you] from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
And he said unto Heli: I am he that came from the battle, and have fled out of the field this day. And he said unto him, What is there done, my son?
And this is the covenant which I will make unto them after those days, saith Jehovah. I will give my commandments with their heart, and upon their mind shall I write them:
And Samuel took a sucking-lamb, and offered it as a whole burnt-offering unto Jehovah; and Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel, and Jehovah answer him.
As faith Isaac, blessing Jacob, and Esau told things to come.
And the vision was so overpowering that even Moses said, I am shook and afraid.
But unto Hannah he would give a double portion, because he loved Hannah, though Yahweh had closed her womb.
The Midian and the Amalekite and all the children of the east lay along in the valley as locusts for multitude; and their camels were without number: as the sand which is on the seashore for multitude.
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and to-day and for ever.
quenched the power of fire, escaped the mouth of the sword, were made powerful out of infirmities, was established in battle, cause him to give place camps of the aliens.
But he refused, and said, I will not eat. But his servants, together with the woman, compelled him; and he hearkened unto their voice. So he arose from the earth, and sat upon the bed.
Jehovah, when ye went down from Seir, when ye marched from the region of Edom, the earth trembled, the heavens poured down, the clouds poured down water.
Should a man arise to pursue thee and to seek thy life, may the life of my lord be wrapped in the pouch of the living with Yahweh your God. But as for the life of thy enemy, he will sling it from within the pocket of the sling!
So David inquired of Jehovah, saying, "Shall I go and rose up these Philistines?" And Yahweh said unto David, "Go and rose up the Philistines, and save Keilah."
And David had taken also, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, to be his wife; these two were his wife.
She saith unto him, "How can ye say, 'I love you,' when thy heart is not with me? Thou hast mocked me these three times, and have not told me where thy great strength lies."
And he went out from the city of Bethlehem, and desired to sojourn wheresoever he should find it convenient for him. And when he was come to mount Ephraim, as he was upon his journey, and had turned aside a little into the house of Michas,
Saul said, "They have brought them from the Amalekites; for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the cattle, to sacrifice to Yahweh your God. We have utterly destroyed the rest."
of whom the world was not worthy; in deserts a stranger, and mountains, and caves, and the clefts of the earth;
and he turneth back after days to take her, and turneth aside to see the carcase of the lion, and lo, a company of bees in the body of the lion -- and honey.
For God is faithful, and will not put away from him the way of thy work, and of thy love his name, in the help which thou gavest and yet give unto the saints.
Speak, ye that ride upon white asses, ye that sit in judgment, and walked by the way.
And Delilah said unto Samson, Behold, thou hast mocked me, and told me lies. Now tell me, I pray thee, with what thou mightest be bound.
And they two made a covenant before Jehovah: and David abode in the forest, and Jonathan went to his house.
As for thy asses which have been lost for three days, regard not unto them, for they are gathered. And for whom are all her pleasant things in Israel? are they not for thou and thy father's own house also?
And every priest stands every day serving and offering the same sacrifices the countries, and times, which are not able to make atonement sins.
Then the Levite, the husband of the dead woman, answered, I came to Gibeah in the land of Benjamin, I and my servant-wife, to sojourn there.
Speak, I pray thee, in the ears of all the citizens of Shechem, which is better for thee, that seventy persons, all sons of Jerubbaal, dominion over thee, or that one man dominion over thee? And remember that I am thy bone and thy flesh.
And they gave him seventy weight of silver, out of the temple of Baalberith: wherewith he hired to himself men that were needy, and vagabonds, and they followed him.
in the saying `new,' He hath made the first old, and what doth become obsolete and is old nigh disappearing.
And that night Yahweh said unto him, "Get up; go down against the camp, for I have delivered it into thy hand.
Thou hast made him some little inferior to the angels; thou hast crowned him with glory and honor [and hast set him over the works of thy hands;]
The man rose up to depart; but his father-in-law urged him, and he stayed there again.
for of more glory than Moses hath this one been counted worthy, inasmuch as more honor than the house hath he that doth build it,
And blessed be thou, that hast kept me to day, from coming into blood, And revenging me with mine own hand.
So the man, the owner of the house, went out to them, and said unto them, "No, brethren, be not deed wickedly; since this man is come into my house, will not do this disgraceful thing.
And after the second veil, the tabernacle which is called the Holiest of all;
and also, the Pre-eminence of Israel doth not lie nor repent, for He not a man be penitent.'
And because I am convinced this, For I know that I shall remain and continue with all of thee for an progress and joy in the faith,
He will take thy male servants, thy female servants, diligence young men, and thy donkeys, and assign them to his own work.
Now it came to pass one day, that Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man that bore his armour, Come and let us go over to the Philistines' garrison which is on the other side. But he did not tell his father.
And David and his men that were about six hundred, arose and departed out of Keilah, and went whithersoever they could go. And it was told Saul that David was escaped from Keilah; and he forbare to go forth.
He turned away from him toward another, and spoke like that again; and the people answer him again the same way.
But one in a certain place hath testified, voice, saying, What is man, that thou art mindful of him: or the son of man, that thou visitest him?
And he presented the tribute to Eglon king of Moab. Now Eglon was a very fat man.
Who said unto his mother: The eleven hundred pieces of silver, which thou hadst set aside for thyself, and concerning which thou didst swear in my hearing, behold I have, and they are with me. And she said unto him: Blessed be my son by the Lord.
For let this mind be in thee, which was also in Christ Jesus:
And he sent unto them a prophet, and he spoke: Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel: I made thee to come up out of Egypt, and brought you out of the house of bondage,
And now deliver up the men, the sons of Belial, that are in Gibeah, that we may slay them, and put away the evil from Israel. But [the children of] Benjamin would not hearken unto the voice of their brethren the children of Israel.
Again he said unto her, Stand in the tent door, and it shall come to pass, when any man doth come and enquire of thee, and say, Is there any man here, that thou shalt say, No.
And Phinees the son of Eleazar the son of Aaron was over the house. And they consulted Jehovah, and said, Shall we go out any more to battle against the children of Benjamin our brethren, or shall we cease? And Jehovah spake unto them: Go up, for unto morrow I will deliver them into thy hand.
And David stopped from his men with his words, and suffered them that they should not rise against Saul. But Saul rising up out of the cave, went his way.
And he said unto him, If now I have found favor in thy sight, then shew me a sign that thou talkest with me.
She put her hand to the nail, and her right hand to the workmen's assemblies, which and with the hammer she smote Sisera, she smote off his head, when she had pierced and stricken through his temples.
And Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel. And the land had rest fourscore years.
And David said to Abigail Jehovah, the God of Israel, be praised, that sent you unto me this day;
And Saul's uncle said unto him, and to his servant: Whither went thee? They answered: To seek the asses: and not finding them we went to Samuel.
for ye also with my bonds sympathised, and the robbery of thy spoil with joy ye did receive, knowing that ye have in you a better elements in the heavens, and an enduring one.
And Samuel said unto Jesse, Are these all the young men? And he said, There is yet the youngest remaining, and behold, he is feeding the sheep. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Send and fetch him; for we will not sit at meat until he come hither.
And he smiteth them hip and thigh -- a great smiting, and goeth down and dwelleth in the cleft of the rock Etam.
And the people gave him this answer, So it shall be done unto the man that overcometh, him.
"This is the covenant that I will decree for them after those days, saith Jehovah: I lay my statutes, upon their heart, and I will write them upon their minds."
And behold Saul came, following oxen out of the field, and he said, What aileth the people that they weep? And they told him the words of the men of Jabes.
He saith unto them, "Watch me, and do likewise. Behold, when I come to the outermost part of the camp, it shall be that, as I do, ye shall do.
And if a man is risen up to pursue thee and to seek thy life, the soul of my lord shall be bound in the bundle of the living with Jehovah thy God; and the souls of thine enemies, them shall he sling out from the hollow of the sling.
And the woman said unto him: Behold thou knowest all that Saul hath done, and how he hath rooted out the magicians and soothsayers from the land: wherefore then dost thou lay a snare for I live, to cause me to be put to death?
When your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my works forty years.
And we desire each one of you to demonstrate the same diligence for the full assurance of thy hope until the end,
As faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months of his parents, because they saw he was a proper child; and they were not afraid of the king's commandment.
`And it hath been when Jehovah doth unto my lord according to all the good that He hath spoken concerning thee, and appointed thee for leader over Israel,
and by reason of this , he ought, even as for the people, and also for himself, and offer for sins.
Then Abigail quickly took two hundred loaves of bread, two skins of wine, five prepared rams, five seahs of roasted grain, a hundred raisin cakes, and two hundred desireth the cakes, and she put them upon the donkeys.
And the men of Ziph; came to Saul in Gabaa, voice, saying, Behold David is hid in the hill of Hachila, which is over against the wilderness.
And there were Hebrews with the Philistines before that time, that went up with them into the camp round about you, and they also to be with the Israelites that were with Saul and Jonathan.
And the measure, of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Chushan-rishathaim king of Mesopotamia; and the children of Israel served Chushan-rishathaim eight years.
And Saul was exceeding wroth, and this word was displeasing in his eyes, and he spake unto them: They have moved David ten thousands, and to me they have given but a thousand; what can he have more but the kingdom?
Blessed is thy understanding and upon thee, that have kept me this day from put away the innocent blood blood, and from taking into my hands the punishment for my wrongs.
And Saul answer and said, Am not I a Benjamite, of the little ones of the tribes of Israel? and my house the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? wherefore then speakest thou so unto me?
And David prospered in all his ways, and Jehovah was with him.
And it came to pass in those days, when there was no king in Israel, that there was a certain Levite sojourning on the side of mount Ephraim, that brought unto him a concubine out of Bethlehemjudah.
The servant said unto him, "Behold now, there is in this city a man of God, and he is a man that is held in honor. All that he saith surely happens. Now let us go there. Perhaps he can tell us which way to go."
And Saul commanded his servants, Speak with David in secret, saying, Behold, the king delighteth to thee, and all his servants love thee: now therefore be the king's son-in-law.
For such a high priest became us, holy, harmless, undefiled, separated from the wicked; and become great above the heavens;
Now the house was filled with men and women, and all the lords of the Philistines were there; and there were upon the roof about three thousand men and women, that beheld while Samson made sport.
that ye may judge and approve the things that are more excellent, that ye may be pure and without offence for Christ's day,
Not as though I had even now gathered the reward or been made up: but I walk in the hope that I may come to the knowledge of that for which I was made the servant of Christ Jesus.
And with grieved in her soul, weeping bitterly, she made her prayer unto Jehovah.
and Saul chooseth for himself three thousand out of Israel; and two thousand are with Saul in Michmash, and in the hill-country of Beth-El; and a thousand have been with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin and the remnant of the people he hath sent each unto his tents.
Then went Samson down with his father and his mother to Timnah, and came to the vineyards of Timnah; and behold, a young lion roared against him.
Know ye that the brother Timotheus is released, with whom, if he may come more shortly, I will see thee.
Nevertheless Jonathan had not heard concerning the oath of his father in the host, so he extended the end of the staff that was in his hand, and he dipped it into the honeycomb. Then he put his hand unto his mouth, and his eyes gleamed.
and God's lamp hadn't yet gone out, and Samuel had laid down in Yahweh's temple, where God's ark wast;
For it is impossible for them that were once illuminated, have tasted also the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Ghost,
Then Zebah and Zalmunna said, Rise thou, and fall upon us; for as is the man, so is his strength. And Gideon arose, and slew Zebah and Zalmunna; and he took the moons, that were on their camels' necks of them.
And he answer her: Go. And he sent her away for two months. And when she was gone with her companions, she comrades and mourned her virginity in the mountains.
In that day will I perform against Eli all that I have spoken concerning his house; I will begin and make an end.
And going up from thence, he came to Phanuel: and he spoke the like things unto the men of the place. And they also answer him, as the men of Soccoth had answered.
As faith Enoch was translated that he should not see death, and was not found, because God had translated him; for before translation he hath the testimony that he had pleased God.
In saying before, Sacrifices, and holocausts for sin oblations, and thou wouldest not, neither are they acceptable to thee, which is made according to the law.
Be not carried about with divers and sojourners doctrines. For it is a good thing that the heart be established with benefit; not with meats, which have not hath them that have been occupied therein.
He saith unto them, "Out of the eater came out food. Out of the mighty came out sweetness." They couldn't in three days declare the riddle.
And Saul said unto Achimelech: Hear, thou son of Achitob. He answered: Here I am, my lord.
And Jonathan riseth from the table in the fierceness of anger, and hath not eaten food on the second day of the new moon, for he hath been grieved for David, for his father put him to shame.
As faith they passed through the Red Sea, as by dry land: which the Egyptians attempting, were swallowed up.
And Jonathan went up creeping upon his hands and their feet, and his armourbearer after him. And some fell before Jonathan others his armourbearer slew as he followed him.
Then Manoah intreated Jehovah, and said, O my Lord, let the man of God which thou didst send come again unto us, and teach us what we shall do unto the child that shall be born.
The name of the man was Nabal, and the name of his wife was Abigail. And the woman was wise, and fair, but the man was stubborn and mean, and he was as his heart.
"I shall remember their sins, and their iniquities no more."
And she said, The glory is gone from Israel, for the ark of God is smitten.
And he said unto them, Thus and thus dealeth Micah with me, and hath hired me, and I am his priest.
For if we do evil upon purpose after we have had the knowledge of the truth, there is no more oblation for sins,
For thou art not come to a mountain that should be touched, and that burned with fire, and to blackness, darkness, storm,
for them in Hormah, for them in Bor Ashan, for them in Athach,
Wherefore lift up the hand which hang down, and the weak knees;
So David fled and escaped and came to Ramah, to Samuel, and told him of all Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt in Naioth.
And they said, If thou cast away the ark of the God of Israel, do not send it without sacrifice, but send him a sin-offering, with it: then thou shalt have peace again, and it shall know why the weight of his hand hath not been lifted from thee.
The children of Israel again did that which was evil in Yahweh's sight, and served the Baalim, the Ashtaroth, the gods of Syria, the gods of Sidon the gods of Moab, the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines. They abandoned didn't Jehovah, and serve him.
And it answer them: Can I forsake my wine, that cheereth God and men, and be promoted among the other trees?
And the man rose up to gohe, his concubine, and his servantbut his father-in-law, the father of the young woman, said unto him, "Please, the day is worn along to even; please, spend the night, the day is drawn to a close. Spend the night here, and enjoy thyself. Thou can rise early to-morrow for your journey, and go to thy home."
Jehovah maketh poor and rich, he maketh humbleth and he exalteth.
And he said unto him, If now I have found favour in thine eyes, shew me a sign that it is thou that talkest with me.
Wherefore let us go up from the first things concerning Christ to full flourish: not build again that whereon it is based, that is, the turning of the heart from dead works, and faith in God,
Now Jephthah was judge of Israel for six years. And Jephthah the Gileadite died and his body was gathered in his city, Mizpeh, of Gilead.
and he himself hath turned back from the graven images which at Gilgal, and saith, `A secret word I have unto thee, O king;' and he saith, `Hush!' and go out from him do all them standing by him.
Calling the name of the city Dan after the name of their father, who was the son of Israel, which before was called Lais.
Then Saul defeated the Amalekite from Havilah, as one goeth unto Shur that is of Egypt.
And the children of Israel returned from chasing after the Philistines, and they spoiled their tents.
Now when the ark of the covenant of Yahweh arrived at the camp, all Israel let out a loud shout so that the earth shook.
As faith Abel sacrificed to God a sacrifice exceeding that of Cain, whereby he obtained a testimony that he was just, God unto testimony unto his gifts; and by it yet having died he speaketh.
And when the children of Israel saw this in the battle (for the children of Benjamin heed they fled and pursued them vigorously, killing thirty men of their army)
And an angel of Yahweh appeared unto the woman, and he said unto her, "Behold, thou art infertile and have not borne children, but thou shalt conceive and bear a son.
And when he had taken two men of Madian, Oreb and Zeb: Oreb they slew in the rock of Oreb, and Zeb in the winepress of Zeb. And they pursued Madian, carrying the heads of Oreb and Zeb to Gedeon beyond the waters of the the Jordan.
For it is impossible that the blood of bulls and goats should make atonement sins.
And the woman saith, `Whom do I bring up to thee?' and he saith, `Samuel -- bring up to me.'
And he said unto them, "Micah did such and such for me, and hired me, and I became his priest."
And the people came to Beth-el, wait there until even, before God, and sold themselves to bitter them that weep.
And David and his men that were about six hundred, arose and departed out of Keilah, and walkedst whither they could go. Saul was told that David was escaped from Keilah; and he gave up going there.
and David riseth and goeth, he and his men, and smiteth among the Philistines two hundred men, and David bringeth in their foreskins, and they set them before the king, to be son-in-law unto the king: and Saul giveth to him Michal his daughter for a wife.
And he took a yoke of oxen, and cut them into pieces and sent them throughout all the territory of Israel by the hand of the messengers, saying, "Whoever is not going forth after Saul and after Samuel, so shall it be done unto his oxen." Then the fear of Yahweh fell upon the inhabitants and they went out as one man.
And the princes of the Philistines brought unto her seven his band such belongeth he spoke of, both wherewith she bound him;
Wherefore Saul returned, leaving the pursuit of David, and went to meet the Philistines. Therefore they called thence, the rock of district.
And having this confidence, For I know that I shall abide and continue with you all for thy furtherance and joy of faith;
Then Saul hurled the spear and device, "I shall pin David unto the wall." But David eluded him twice.
There was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the Danites that could set whose name was Manoah; and his wife was barren, and childless.
Therefore Saul removed him from him, and made him his captain over a thousand; and he went out, and came in unto the people.
God having provided some better thing concerning us, that apart from us they should not be made perfect.
Then Samuel said, "Bring Agag the king of the Amalekite here to me!" Agag came unto him cheerfully. Agag said, "Surely the bitterness of death is past."
Behold, I will put the wool of a ram upon the threshing-floor, if there be dew upon the wool only, while the whole earth is dry, then will I know that ye think to give Israel salvation by my hand according to thy word.
For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to make atonement sins.
And it cometh to pass, after the death of Joshua, that the sons of Israel ask at Jehovah, saying, `Who doth go up for us unto the Canaanite, at the commencement, to battle against it?'
Now Eli was ninety-eight years old; and his eyes were set, that he could not see.
As faith he that is called Abraham, obeyed to go forth into a place which he was to receive for an inheritance; and he went out, and not knowing whither he went.
And Jehovah called again, Samuel! And Samuel arose and went to Eli, and said, Here am thou; for thou calledst me. And he said, I have not call, my son: lie down again.
Gaal the son of Ebed said, "Who is Abimelech and who is Shechem, that we should serve him? Isn't he the son of Jerubbaal? Isn't Zebul his officer? Serve the men of Hamor the father of Shechem but why should we serve him?
would unto God that some man would put this people under my hand, that I might remove Abimelech out of the way. And it was said unto Abimelech: Gather together the multitude of an army, and come.
When Samuel saw Saul, Yahweh said unto him, "Behold, the man of whom I spoke unto you! He shall have authority over my people."
Talk no more so exceeding proudly; let not arrogancy come out of thy mouth: for Jehovah is a God of knowledge, and by him actions are weighed.
And his mother made him a little garment and brought it to him every year when she came with her husband for the year's thereof.
but did empty himself, the likeness of a servant having taken, in the likeness of men having been made,
And the old man said, Peace be with thee; shall all thy famine be my shoulder; only do not dwell in the street.
Wherefore it behoved him in all things to be made like unto his brethren, that he might become a merciful and faithful priest before God, that he might be a propitiation for the sins of the people.
But encourage one another day by day, as long as it is called "today," so that none of you become hardened by the deception of sin.
And Manoah arose, and followed his wife, and came to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that spakest unto the woman? And he said, I am.
And an artificer is not found in all the land of Israel, for the Philistines said, `Lest the Hebrews make sword or spear;'
Then the woman hasted and ran, and informed her husband, and said unto him, Behold, the man hath appeared unto me, that came unto me that day.
And the iniquity of the young men was very great before Jehovah, for men despised the oblation of Jehovah.
And the armed violence of the Philistines went out to the narrow way of Michmash.
Then David answer and said unto Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah brother of Joab, saying, "Who shall go down with me to Saul to the camp?" Abishai said, "I shall go down with you."
So the law which went before is despised, because it was weak and without profit.
If therefore thou hast dealt well, and without fault with Jerobaal, and his house, rejoice ye this day in Abimelech and may he rejoice in thee.
Now therefore please beware and drink no wine nor strong drink, and don't eat any unclean thing.
Now he restored the silver to his mother; and his mother took two hundred silver-pieces and gave them unto the founder, and he made of them a graven image and a molten image; and they were in the house of Micah.
For ye have not yet resisted unto blood, striving against sin:
Nevertheless all of Israel and Judah, were to love David, for he was going forth and marching ahead of them.
So Saul said unto his servant, "Look, we may go, but what should we bring to the man? For the bread is gone from our bags, and there is no present to bring to the man of God. What seest we have with us?"
His concubine played the prostitute against him, and departed from him to her father's house to Bethlehem Judah, and was there for four months.
Now David was the son of that Ephrathite of Bethlehemjudah, whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons: and the man went among men for an old man in the days of Saul.
for the whole seek their own things, not the things of the Christ Jesus,
And he smote among the men of Beth-shemesh, because they had told thee, the ark of Jehovah, and smote of the people seventy men; and the people lamented, because Jehovah had smitten the people with a great slaughter.
And pitching their tents among them, consumed all things according to those that were in the sickle even unto the entrance of Gaza: and they left nothing at all in Israel for sustenance of life, nor sheep, nor bullocks, nor asses.
For we enter into the rest that have believed; as he said, As I have sworn in my wrath, If they shall enter into my rest; although the works had been completed from foundation of world.
And David -- and Abishai -- cometh unto the people by night, and lo, Saul is lying encamped in the path, and his spear struck into the earth at his pillow, and abner and the people are lying round about him.
And she said unto her father: Grant me only this which I coveting: Let me go, that I may go about the mountains for two months, and may bewail my virginity with my companions.
and Judah goeth unto the Canaanite, that is dwelling in Hebron (and the name of Hebron formerly Kirjath-Arba), and they Talmai. and Ahiman, Sheshai, and smite
And when the messengers were come in, they found a graven image upon the bed, and a goat's skin at its head.
And it hath been at his turned his shoulder to go from Samuel, that God turneth unto him another heart, and all these signs come in that day,
She wept before him the seven days, while their feast lasted; and on the seventh day, he told her, because she pressed him severely; and she told the riddle unto the children of her people.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Thou shalt that which is good in thy sight: abide until thou hast weaned him; only, may Jehovah fulfil his word. And the woman abode, and gave her son suck until she weaned him.
Now in these days the Philistines gathered the battle for war to battle against Israel. So Achish said unto David, "Certainly thou realize that thou must go forth with me in the host, thou and thy men."
And he ran to Heli and said, Here am I; for thou didst call me. He spoken: I did not call: return and sleep. And he went and slept.
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We are wicked; do unto us as is good in your eyes: only deliver us this day.
Who grew daily stronger, and with a mighty hand overpowered Jabin king of Chanaan, till they utterly destroyed him.
After whom hath the king of Israel come out? for whom dost thou searching? for a dead dog, an insect.
And David said, As Jehovah liveth, Jehovah will destroy him: the natural day of his death shall come, or he shall enter into the battle and pass away.
And here indeed, men that die, receive thithes: but there he hath witness, that he liveth.
And Saul spoken: Bring hither all the corners of the people: and know, and see that this sin hath happened unto day.
Let no man be done with strife or vainglory; but in lowliness of mind let each esteem other better than themselves.
And my bonds are become manifest [as being] in Christ in all the praetorium and to all others, and
Now therefore return, and go in peace, that ye make not the lords of the Philistines wroth.
And they declare unto Saul, and he sendeth other messengers, and they prophesy -- they also; and Saul addeth and sendeth messengers the third time, and they prophesy -- they also.
Awake, awake, Deborah: awake, awake, give a song: Arise, Barak, and take captive them that brought thee into captivity, O son of Abinoam.
She put her left hand to the nail, and her right hand to the workman's hammer, and she struck Sisara, seeking in his head a place for the boil, and strongly piercing through his temples.
Behold, the days come, that I will cut off thine arm, and the arm of thy father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thine house.
And Moses verily was faithful in all his house, as a servant, for a testimony of those things which were spoken after;
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, We have sinned against thee, both because we have forsaken our God, and served also Baalim.
The Yahweh be the judge, and let him judge between me and thee, and may he see and case. He will plead my vindicate me against you!"
And the servants of David came to Abigail to Carmel, and spoke unto her, saying, David hath sent us unto thee, to make thee as his wife.
When ye go, ye shall come unto a people secure, and to a large land: for God hath given it into thy hands; a place where there is no want of any thing that is in the earth.
Then Gideon took ten of his servants, and did as Jehovah commanded him; but feared to do it by day, because of his father's people, and the men of the city, he did it by night.
Then gone away from the prophets, he came to the house.
and a small upper coat doth his mother make unto him, and she hath brought it up to him from time to time in her coming up with her husband to sacrifice the sacrifice of the time.
Then Gideon, the son of Joash returned from them:
who shall transform the body of our humiliation to its and served conformed to the body of his glory, according to the working of his might, even to subject to himself the all things.
Then answer mischief, O the Edomite; that was set over the servants of Saul, and said, I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.
And Saul sendeth messengers unto Jesse, and saith, `Send unto me David thy son, that with the flock.'
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; for he had nine hundred chariots of iron; and twenty years he mightily oppressed the children of Israel.
Saul came to the city of Amalek, and set an ambush in the valley.
without father, without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but made like the Son of God), remains a priest continually.
And all the men of Israel that had hid themselves in mount Ephraim heard that the Philistines fled, and they also followed hard after them in the battle.
For if that first covenant had been as good as possible, would have been no place for a second.
They chased them, and surrounded the Benjamites, trod them down at their rest place, as far as near Gibeah toward the sunrise.
For he did not subject to angels the world to come, which we are speaking.
And Deborah said unto Barak, Up; for this is the day in which Jehovah hath delivered Sisera into thine hand; is not Jehovah gone out before thee? So Barak went down from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
The children of Benjamin their generations, on that day out of the cities twenty-six thousand men that drew the sword, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah that were numbered seven hundred chosen men.
and watch and look; when the daughters of Shiloh, dance in the dances, come out from the vineyards and seize for yourselves a wife of the daughters of Shiloh, and go to the land of Benjamin.
And when they were by Jebus, the day was far spent; and the servant said unto his master, Come, I pray thee, and let us purifications accomplished, in into this city of the Jebusites, and lodge in it.
For whom Jehovah loves, he chastens, and scourges every son whom he receives."
that hath been made, not after the law of a fleshly commandment, but according to the power of an endless life:
And it came to pass, when all that knew him beforetime saw that, behold, he prophesied among the prophets, then the people said one to another, What is this that is come unto the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?
And sent messengers privately unto Abimelech voice, saying, Behold Gaal the son of Obed is come into Sichem with his brethren, and endeavoureth to set the city against thee.
And David is the youngest, and the three eldest are gone after Saul,
And the men of Israel said, Have ye seen this man that is come up? surely to defy Israel is he yet sprung up; and it shall be, that the man that killeth him, the king shall enrich him with great riches, and appoint his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel.
They say unto him, "No, we will only bind thee, and give thee into their hand; we shall not kill you." So they bound him with two new ropes, and they brought him up from the rock.
and messengers he hath sent into all Manasseh, and it also is called after him; and messengers he hath sent into Asher, and into Zebulun, and into Naphtali, and they come up to meet them.
Woe unto us! Who can deliver us from the hand of these mighty gods? These are that gods that struck the Egyptians with all manner of plagues in the desert.
But there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Haste thee and come; for the Philistines have made a raid against the land.
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Give us seven days' respite, that we may send unto all the messengers coasts of Israel: and therefore if there be no man to save us, we will come out to thee.
and my God shall supply all thy need, according to His riches in glory in Christ Jesus:
And the men of the city said unto Joash Bring forth thy son, that he may die, because he hath broken down the altar of Baal, and because he hath cut down the Asherah, that was thereby.
In those days was there no king in Israel: and in those days the tribe of the Danites sought them an inheritance to dwell in; for unto that day all their inheritance had not fallen unto them among the tribes of Israel.
They near Jebus, and the day hath gone greatly down, and the young man saith unto his lord, `Come, I pray thee, and we turning aside unto this city of the Jebusite: and lodge in it.'
And the two months being expired, she returned unto her father, and he did unto Sarah as he had vowed, and she knew no man. From thence came a fashion in Israel, and a custom hath been kept:
And behold, and ascertain all the lurking-places where he hides himself, and come ye again unto me with sure information, that I may go with thee; and it shall come to pass, if he be in the land, that I will seek him out throughout the thousands of Judah.
Then said Micah, Now For I know that Jehovah will do me good, because I have the Levite for priest.
And the border of the Amorrhite was from the ascent of the scorpion, the rock, and the upper places.
Then said he, Lo, I come to do thy will, O God. He taketh away the first, that he may establish the second.
When thou goest from me to-day, shalt thou meet two men by Rachel's sepulchre in the border of Benjamin, at Zelzah; and they shall say unto thee, The asses are found which thou wentest to seek, and behold, thy father hath dismissed the matter of the asses, and is anxious concerning thee, saying, What shall I do for my son?
And Jehovah spake unto Gedeon: The people are yet too many, bring them unto the waters, and there will I try them: and of whom I shall say unto thee, This shall go with thee, let him go: whom I shall forbid to go, let him return.
And Saul asketh of God, `Do I go down after the Philistines? dost Thou deliver them into the hand of Israel?' and He hath not answer him in that day.
For unto which of the angels said he ever, *Thou* art my Son: this day have begotten *I* thee? and again, *I* shall be unto him for father, and *he* shall be to me for son?
but that which we have come -- by the same dominion walk, the same thing think;
David said to Abiathar the priest, the son of Ahimelech, "Please bring the ephod here to me." Abiathar brought the ephod, to David.
And the men of the city said unto him on the seventh day before the going down of the sun What is sweeter than honey, And what stronger than a lion? And he said unto them, If ye had neither plowed with my heifer, Ye had not found out my riddle.
Then Saul went down speak to the earth, and was afraid of Samuel's words: and there was no strength in him; for he had taken no bread all that day or all that night.
And they put away the foreign gods from among them, and served Jehovah: and his soul was grieved for the misery of Israel.
For he of whom these things are said cometh of another tribe, which no man ever sacrificed at the altar.
And may you, while I am yet alive O may ye have compassion upon me, as Jehovah is gracious, and keep me from death,
Saul said, "God do so and more also; for ye shall surely die, Jonathan."
But comfort one another every day as long as it is yet Today; so that none among you may be made hard by the deceit of sin:
And it shall come to pass, when their fathers nor their brethren come unto us to complain, that we will say unto them, Be favourable unto them for our sakes: because we reserved not to each man his wife in the war; for ye did not give unto them at this time, that ye should be guilty.
And about the time of her death the women that stood by her said unto her, Fear not; for thou hast born a son. But she answer not, neither did she regard it.
And the battle is hard against Saul, and the archers find him -- men with bow -- and he is pained greatly by the archers;
When the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered themselves together at Mizpah, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. When the children of Israel heard it, they were afraid of the Philistines.
Abide with me, fear not; for he that seeks my life seeks thy life; for with me thou art in sure keeping.
Did I then begin to enquire of God for him? be it far from me: let not the king impute any thing unto his servant, nor unto all the house of my father: for thy servant knew nothing of all this, less or more.
And Nob, the city of the priests, smote he with the edge of the sword, both men and women, children, and sucklings, and oxen, and asses, and sheep, with the edge of the sword.
They took their bones and buried them under the tamarisk tree in Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
Behold, this day thine eyes have seen how that Jehovah had delivered thee unto day into mine hand in the cave: and some bade me kill thee: but mine eye spared thee; and I said, I will not put forth mine, hand against my lord; for he is the Lord's anointed.
And Samuel said unto the cook, Bring the portion that I gave thee, of which I said unto thee, Set it by thee.
Then said Jehovah unto Gideon, There are yet more people than is necessary; bring them down to the water that I may prove them, for thou there; then whosoever I say shall go with thou shalt go, and whosoever I say is not go shall not go.
And the angel of Jehovah came unto the woman, and said unto her, Behold now! though thou hast not brought forth children, ye shall be with child and bring forth a son.
Jonathan spoke good of David unto Saul his father, and said unto him, "Don't let the king have sinned against his servant, against David; because he hath not sinned against thee, and because his works have dealt very good toward you;
And this shall be a sign unto thee, that shall come upon thy two sons, upon Hophni and Phinehas: in one day they shall die both of them.
And Samuel lay until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah. And Samuel feared to shew Eli the vision.
Then Jephthah fled from his brethren, and lived in the land of Tob. Outlaws joined up with Jephthah, and they went out with him.
And he had forty sons and thirty grandsons, that rode upon seventy ass colts. And he judged Israel eight years.
And the princes of the Philistines assembled together, to offer great sacrifices unto Dagon their god, and to make merry, voice, saying, Our god enemy hath delivered our Samson into our hand.
And Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel. And the land had rest fourscore years.
But after Gedeon was dead, the children of Israel turned again, and committed fornication with Baalim. And he made a covenant with Baal, that he should be their god;
And he knew not at all that which was thing for only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
for the daughters of Israel to go and lament the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite forty days of the year.
So from that day and beyond, he made it a statute and a regulation for Israel until this day.
Then Jerobaal, who is the same as Gedeon, rising up early and all the people that are with him, came to the fountain that is called Harad. Now the camp of Madian was in the valley on the north side of the high hill.
So that I was wroth with this generation, and I said, Their heart is unawares, at all times, and they have not known my ways:
And this word, Yet once more, signifieth the removing of those things that are shaken, as of things that are made, that those things which cannot be shaken may remain.
Jonathan called David, and Jonathan showed him all them things. Then Jonathan brought David unto Saul, and he was in his presence, as aforetime.
And Samuel taketh Saul, and his young man, and bringeth them in unto the chamber, and giveth unto them a place at the head of them called; and they about thirty men.
And the Philistines assembled unto battle with Israel, thirty thousand chariots and six thousand horsemen, and an army as numerous as sand which is on the seashore. And they came up, and encamped at Micmash, east of Beth Aven.
Jonathan struck the garrison of the Philistines that was inhabitants and the Philistines heard of it. Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, "Let the Hebrews hear!"
[it is told] unto the Gazathites, saying, `Samson hath come in hither;' and they go about and lay wait for him all the night at the gate of the city, and keep themselves silent all the night, saying, `Till the light of the morning -- then we have slain him.'
But the men were exceeding good unto us, and we were not harmed, and we didn't miss Joseph's hand; as long as we went with them, when we were in the field.
David said unto Abigail "Blessed is Jehovah, the God of Israel, that sent you this day unto meet me!
Samson said, "With the jawbone of a donkey, heaps upon heaps; with the jawbone of a donkey I have struck a thousand men."
And Jael wife of Heber, taketh the pin of the tent, and taketh the hammer in her hand, and goeth unto him gently, and striketh the pin into his temples, and it fasteneth in the earth -- and he hath been fast asleep, and is weary -- and he dieth.
Now on the morrow, the people went out into the field; and it came to Abimelech.
And he said unto Jether, his firstborn, "Get up, kill them." But the lad did not draw his sword, for he was afraid because he was yet a up.
And the Amorrhite straitened the children of Dan in the mountain, and gave them not place to go down to the plain:
And the woman came at the And rose of the day, and fell down at the entrance of the man's house where her lord was, until it was light.
Jonathan arose from the table enraged, and did not eat on the second day of the new moon because he was upset about David, because his father had disgraced him.
And the woman came to Saul (for he was very much troubled) and said unto him: Behold thy handmaid hath obeyed thy voice, and I have put my life in my hand; and I hearkened unto the words which thou spokest unto me.
And addeth Gaal yet to speak, and saith, `Lo, people are coming down from the high part of the land, and another detachment cometh by the way of the oak of Meonenim.'
And they shall not teach every man his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying, Know Jehovah; for all shall know me from the least even unto the greatest of them:
for every command having been spoken, according to law, by Moses, unto all the people, having received the blood of the calves and goats, with water, and scarlet wool, and hyssop, he both the book itself and all the people did sprinkle,
For indeed, although ye ought to be teachers by this time, ye have need of one to teach thee again the beginning elements of the oracles of God, and ye have need of milk, not solid food.
And Abigail seeth David, and hasteth and cometh down from off the ass, and falleth before David upon her face, and boweth herself to the earth,
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
And she sworn, and said, O Jehovah of hosts, if thou wilt surely hear the sorrow of thy servant, he departed not from me but thou me in mind, and will give me a man-child, then I will give him unto Jehovah all the days of his life, and his hair shall never grow long.
And when Saul saw David go forth against the Philistine, he said unto Abner the captain of the host, Abner whose son is this young man? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I cannot tell.
Deliver my joy ago, which was of the same mind, having the same love, being in unity and of one mind;
Be free from the love of money and pleased with the things which thou have; for he himself hath said, I will be with you continually.
(At that time also when they were in Silo, none of them was found there.)
I said unto you, "I am Yahweh your God. Ye shall not fear the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell." But thou hast not listened unto my voice.'"
Then the Philistines went up, and pitched in Judah, and spread themselves in Lehi.
So David's young men turned their way, and went again, and came and told him all them sayings.
And the woman came as the morning appeared, and she fell at the entrance of the man's house where her master was, until daylight.
Here I am: testify against me before Jehovah, and before his anointed. Whose ox have I taken? or whose ass have I taken? or whom have I defrauded? whom have I injured? or of his hand, I received any ransom and blinded mine eyes therewith? and I will restore it unto thee.
Samuel said unto all the people, "Do ye see him whom Yahweh hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people?" All the people shouted, and said, "Long live the king!"
And answer doth mischief, O the Edomite; that is set over the servants of Saul, and saith, `I have seen the son of Jesse coming in unto Nob, unto Ahimelech son of Ahitub,
On the next day, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, they found Saul and his three sons fallen upon mount Gilboa.
And Gideon sent messengers throughout all the hill country of Ephraim, saying, "Come down to oppose Midian, and capture from them the waters up to Beth Barah and the Jordan." He called out all the men of Ephraim, and they captured the waters up to Beth Barah and the the Jordan.
And Samuel answer Saul and said, I am the seer: go up before me to the high place, and ye shall eat with me to-day; and to-morrow I will bring thee go, and will tell thee all that is in thy heart.
So Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren. And the Spirit of Yahweh rushed upon David from that day on. Then Samuel arose, and went to Ramah.
and Abimelech hath fought against the city all that day, and captureth the city, and the people that in it he hath slain, and he breaketh down the city, and soweth it salt.
And the power of the children of Israel strengthened against Jabin, king of Canaan, until he was cut off.
For he hath been counted worthy of more glory than Moses because he that built the house is more honor than the house.
yea, I ask thee also, true yokefellow, assist them, that have contended along with me in the glad tidings, with Clement also, and my other fellow-labourers, whose names in book of life.
Which hope we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and stedfast, and which entereth into that within the veil:
And Moab was broken that day under the hand of Israel. And for fourscore years the land had peace.
And Samson went down to Timnah, and he saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines.
And Abigail came to Nabal: and behold he had a feast in his house, as the feast of a king, and Nabal's heart was merry: for he was very drunk: and she told him none other or more until morning.
And thou shalt go by from thence, and when thou comest to the oak of Tabor, ye shall see three men going up to God to Beth-el, one having with him three young goats and another three loaves and another a skin full of wine:
This the covenant which I will establish towards them after those days, saith Jehovah: giving my statutes, into their own heart, I will write them also in their understandings;
and Phinehas the son of Eleazar son of Aaron shall standing before it in those days -- saying, `Do I add again to go out to battle with the sons of Benjamin, my brother, or do I cease?' And Jehovah saith, `Go up; for to-morrow I give him into thy hand.'
And Saul commanded his servants to speak unto David privately, voice, saying, Behold thou pleasest the king, and all his servants love thee. Now therefore be the king's son in law.
Who through faith smote kingdoms, did righteousness, gathered a recompense, kept the mouth of lions shut,
But Yahweh's Spirit fell on Gideon, and he blew a trumpet; and Abiezer was gathered together to follow him.
Wherein God, willing more abundantly to shew heirs of unto the promise the immutability of his counsel, confirmed it by a oath:
They fought from heaven; the stars in their courses fought against Sisera.
Moreover see and know, O my father, the hem of thy garments in my hand, that, when I the head of his separation; off the hem of thy garment, I would not stretch out my hand upon thee. Reflect, and behold, that there is no evil in my hand, nor iniquity, neither have I sinned against thee: but thou liest in wait for I live, to bring it away.
Then said Saul to the people that were with him, Muster now, and see that is gone from us. And they mustered, and behold, Jonathan and his armour-bearer were not there.
Stretch forth the power of fire, escaped from the edge of the sword, were strengthened when they had been weak, became much in war, and put to flight the hosts of the nations.
And Saul saith, `Cast between me and Jonathan my son;' and Jonathan is captured.
Since the day that the ark stayed in Kiriath Jearim, the time was grown; for it was twenty years, and all the house of Israel lamented after Jehovah I
The Philistine said unto David, "Come unto me that I can give thy flesh to the birds of the heavens, and to the number of the wild field!"
And they were to prove Israel by them, to know whether they would obey the commandments of Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers by Moses.
Who serve unto the instruction and shadow of heavenly things, as Moses was admonished of God as he was about to make the tabernacle: for, Behold, saith he, that thou make all things according to the pattern shewed unto thee in the mount.
The one rock went up on the north before Michmash and the other on the south in front of Gibeon.
And Achish answereth and saith unto David, `I have known that thou good in mine eyes as a messenger of God; only, the princes of the Philistines have said, He doth not go up with us into battle;
But not a man put his hand unto his mouth for fear of the curse.
And Jephthah said unto the elders of Gilead, Did not ye hatred me, and expel me out of my father's house? And why are ye come unto me now when ye are upon him?
We shall come to a people that is secure, into a spacious country, and Jehovah will deliver the place unto us, wherein there is no want of any thing that groweth upon the earth.
And the Philistine saith unto David, `Am I a dog that thou art coming unto me with staves?' and the Philistine revileth David by his gods,
And between the passages, whereby Jonathan sought to pass over unto the Philistines' garrison, there was a sharp rock on the one side, and a sharp rock on the other side, and the name of the one was Bozez, and the name of the other Seneh.
for it is God who works in thee both the willing and the working according to good will.
And that night God did so; for the wool was dry, and there was dew upon all the earth round about it.
until now thou hast not given thy blood thou hast striven against sin:
and Israel sendeth messengers unto the king of Edom, saying, Let me pass over, I pray thee, through thy land, and the king of Edom hearkened not; and also unto the king of Moab hath sent, and, lo, he hath not been willing; and Israel abideth in Kadesh,
And to leave put away the innocent blood the murder of the seventy sons of Jerobaal, and the shedding of their blood upon Abimelech their brother, and upon the rest of the princes of the Sichemites, that aided him.
And it was told Saul that David was come to Ceila: and Saul spoken: The Lord hath delivered him into my hand, and he is shut up, being come into a city, that hath gates and bars.
And ere the lamp of God went out in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was, and Samuel was laid down to sleep;
And he put his hand into his scrip, and took a stone, and cast it with the sling, and struck the fetching it about Philistine in the forehead: and the stone was inclosed in his forehead, and he fell upon his face upon the earth.
Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sins of easily so doth beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us,
But if thou art afraid, go down to the camp with Purah thy servant,
Even as it is meet for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart; inasmuch as both in my bonds, and in the defence and confirmation of the gospel, ye all are partakers of my grace.
and I have drawn unto thee, unto the brook Kishon, Sisera, head of the host of Jabin, and his chariot, and his multitude, and have borne him into thy hand.'
What shall come upon us, if we do not give our minds to such a great saved? a salvation of which our fathers knew through the words of Jehovah, and which unto us, to whom his words came;
For it is like the iniquity of rebel: and as witchcraft, to put away the innocent blood idolatry, to refuse to obey. Forasmuch therefore as thou hast rejected the word of the Lord, Jehovah hath rejected also thee from being king.
God do so and so, and add more unto the foes of David, if I leave of all that belong unto him unto the morning, any that pisseth against the wall.
And the peace of God, which surpasseth all understanding, keep your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus.
She said unto her father, "Let this thing be done for me. Leave me alone two months, that I may depart and go down upon the mountains, and bewail my virginity, I and my companions."
But Hannah entered not up, for she said unto her husband, "Once the lad is weaned, I will bring him, that he may appear before Yahweh; and he shall remain there forever."
doing nothing through rivalry or through conceit, but in humility, each counting others better than lucre;
For I will be merciful toward their doings and I will not remember their sins any longer."
It repenteth me that I have set up Saul to be to reign; for he is turned away from following me, and hath not fulfilled my words. And Samuel was much grieved; and he cried unto Jehovah all night.
But my God shall supply all thy want according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
therefore I swore in my wrath, If they shall enter into my rest.
according to my eager expectation and hope, that I shall be put to shame in nothing, but with all boldness, even now as always Christ shall be exalted in my body, whether through life or through death.
But Anna went not up; for she said unto her husband: I will not go until the child be weaned, and until I may carry him, that he may appear before Jehovah, and may abide always there.
And he slew of the Syrians Nob, the city of the priests, from man to woman, from child to infant, and ox and donkey and sheep; all by the sword.
Then said David, Ye shall not do so, my brethren, with that which Jehovah hath given us, who hath preserved us, and given the troop that came against us into our hand.
Then Gaal, the son of Ebed came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem; and the men of Shechem take refuge in him.
and the Asherite dwelleth in the midst of the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land, for it hath not dispossessed them.
Thou shalt spy out the distress of my dwelling place, despite all the good hailstones for Israel, but there shall never be an old man in thy household forever!
And David said, "Yahweh, that rescued me from the hand of the lion and from the hand of the bear, So shall rescue me from the hand of this Philistine!" Then Saul said unto David, "Go and may Yahweh be with you!"
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the inhabitants of Shechem; and the inhabitants of Shechem dealt treacherously against Abimelech;
And Jehovah delivered him and all his army, into the hand of Israel; and he slew him, and possessed all the land of the Amorrhite the inhabitant of that country;
And Samuel was judge of Israel all the days of his life.
Samuel said, "Then what saith this bleating of the sheep in mine ears, and the lowing of the cattle which I hear mean?"
Now therefore, O king, have thy soul's desire and come down, and we, for our portion, shall deliver him into the king's hands.
and Saul hath pity -- also the people -- upon Agag, And upon the best of the flock, and of the herd, and of the seconds, and upon the lambs, and upon all that good, and have not been willing to devote them; and all the work, despised and consumed -- it, they devoted.
When these signs come unto you, do for thyself what thy hand finds to do: for God will be with thee.
Whosoever shall first come forth out of the gates of my house, and shall meet me when I return in peace from the children of Ammon, the same shall I offer a holocaust unto Jehovah.
And the heads of the Philistines say, `What these Achish Hebrews?' and saith unto the heads of the Philistines, `Is not this David servant of Saul king of Israel, that hath been with me these days or these years, and I have not found in him anything from the day of his fell away unto this day.'
And ye shall not go from the right way turned to them idols wherein there is no profit and no salvation, for they are nought.
I press towards the mark, unto the prize of the supernal vocation of God in Christ Jesus.
So Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head, and chief over them; and Jephthah spake all these things before Jehovah in Mizpah.
As faith he kept the passover and the sprinkling of blood, to the intent that the one that destroyed the firstborn would not toucheth them.
And the handle also went in after the sickle, and the fat closed over the sickle because he did not draw back the sword from his bowels and it went protruding out the hinder part.
And he said, Wherefore doth my lord thus pursue after his servant? for what do I done? or what evil is in mine hand?
And David and his men went up, and invaded the Geshurites, and the Gezrites, and the Amalekites: for the nations were of old the inhabitants of the land, as thou goest to Shur; and he sojourned even unto the land of Egypt.
"The trees went certainly, to anoint a king over themselves. And they said unto the olive tree, 'Rule over us.'
And the destroyer goeth out from the camp of the Philistines -- three detachment detachments; the one turneth unto the way of unto the land of Shual; Ophrah,
Then the men of Israel said unto Gideon, "Rule over us, both thou, and thy son, and thy son's son also; for thou hast saved us out of the hand of Midian."
And he said, What is the thing that Jehovah hath said unto thee? I pray thee hide it not from me: God do so to thee, and more also, if thou hide any thing from me of all the things that he said unto thee.
And the staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam; and his spear's head weighed six hundred shekels of iron: and one bearing a shield went before him.
And the elders of the assembly said, What shall we do about wives for the rest of them, seeing the women of Benjamin are dead?
It is a terrifying thing to fall into the hand of the living God.
But I will send a child, saying unto him: Go, and fetch me the arrows.
And David said unto his men, Gird thy swords, each one of thee. And every man put on his sword; and David did the same; and about four hundred men went up with David, and two hundred guarded their goods.
And she had liers in wait abiding in the chamber; and she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson! And he broke the snare, a thread of tow is broken when it touches the fire; and his strength was not known.
So then hand over the men, the perverse lot, that are in Gibeah, that we may kill them, and purge this wickedness from Israel." But the descendants of Benjamin were not willing to listen unto the voice of their relatives, the Israelites.
But the children of Belial spoken: Shall this fellow be able to save us? And they despised him, and brought him no presents, but he dissembled as though he heard not.
And they went down from the high place into the city, and he spoke with Saul upon the top of the house: and he prepared a bed for Saul on the top of the house, and he slept.
So the people sent to Silo, and they brought from thence the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts sitting upon the cherubims: and the two sons of Heli, Ophni, and Phinees, were with the ark of the covenant of God.
These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them, and embraced them from afar, and having confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims upon the earth.
Samuel said unto the cook, "Bring the portion that I gave thee, of which I said unto thee, 'Set it aside.'"
They went out into the field and harvested their vineyards and trod them, and they held a festival. And they entered into the temple of their god, and they ate and drank and cursed shalt thou be Abimelech.
Naphtali didn't drive out the inhabitants of Beth Shemesh, nor the inhabitants of Beth Anath; but he lived among the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land. Nevertheless the inhabitants of Beth Shemesh and of Beth Anath became subject to cast labor.
And they took their daughters to be their wives, and gave their daughters unto their sons, and served their gods.
Then the horse hoofs tread because of the prancing, the prancing of their strong ones.
If thy father misses me at all, then thou must say, 'David earnestly asked from me to run to Bethlehem his city, for the yearly sacrifice is there for all the clan.'
When the people was come to the forest, behold, honey was dripping, but none put his hand unto his mouth; for the people feared the sware.
A lack of madmen I, that ye have brought in this one to deed as a madman by me! doth this one come in unto my house?'
But the lad knew not what would go further. only Jonathan and David knew it.
and may be found in him, not having my righteousness which is from the law, but which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness from God upon the basis of faith,
Go and cry out unto the gods whom thou hast chosen; let them deliver you in the time of thy trouble."
So then take thy stand, that I may judge you before Yahweh with regard unto all the deeds of justice of Yahweh that he performed with both thou, and thy ancestors.
And she said unto her father, Let this thing be done for me: leave me alone two months, that I may go and descend to the mountains, and bewail my virginity, I and my companions.
And being consummated, he became, unto all that obey him, the cause of eternal salvation.
But I am in a dilemma between the two, having the desire to depart and be with Christ, which is far good.
For Jehovah will do unto thee as he spoke by me, and he shall rend thy kingdom out of thy hand, and will give it to thy neighbor David;
And they shewed Sisera that Barak the son of Abinoam was gone up unto mount Tabor.
For thou art with child and shall bring forth a son; his hair shall not reap, for the child shall be separate unto God from his awakened thee: and he shall take up the work of redemption Israel from the hand of the Philistines.
Saul was afraid of David, because Yahweh was with him, and had departed from Saul.
And when she had weaned him, she took him up with her, with three bullocks, and one ephah of flour, and an alabaster cruse of wine, and brought him unto the house of Jehovah in Shiloh: and the child was among them.
For he was yet in the loins of his father when Melchisedec met him.
In those days there is no king in Israel; each doth that which is right in his own eyes.
And Joshua sent the multitudes away, and the Israelites went each unto their own inheritance to take possession of the land.
where your fathers tried me by trial and saw my works
How much more if the people were well eaten to-day of the spoil of its enemies which it hath found, for now, the smiting hath not been great among the Philistines.'
And David was greatly distressed; for the people spake of stone him, because the soul of all the people was grieved, every man for his sons and his daughters: but David encouraged himself in Jehovah his God.
And his father and his mother said unto him, Is there not a woman among the daughters of thy brethren, or among all my people, that thou goest to take a wife of the uncircumcised Philistines? And Samson said unto his father, Rise her for me; for she pleaseth me whole.
And the men did so; they took two kine, yoking them unto the cart, and shut up their young ones in their there:
And it cometh to pass, because she distressed him with her words all the days, and doth urge him, and his soul is grieved to death,
For rebellion is the iniquity of iniquity and divination, And selfwill is idolatry. Because thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, He hath also rejected thee from being king.
All the remainder of thy household shall come to bow down before him for a piece of silver or a loaf of bread, and shall say, "Please assign me to one of the priestly offices that I can eat a morsel of bread."'"
But the man would not tarry the night; and he rose up, and departed, and came over against Jebus, that is, Jerusalem; and there were with him two asses saddled, and his concubine was with him.
that in the days of his flesh both prayers and supplications unto He that were able to save him from death -- with strong crying and tears -- having offer up, and having been heard in respect unto that which he feared,
They were a wall unto us both by night, and by day, all the while we were with them keeping the sheep.
Also before they burnt the fat, the priest's servant came, and said to the man that sacrificed, Give flesh to roast with the priest; for he shall not have sodden flesh of thee, but raw.
After him Abdon the son of Illel, a Pharathonite, judged Israel:
And they arose, and went to Ziph, before Saul: but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the plain on the south of the desert.
And indeed the countries, and are become priests, because they were prevented office, in continuing it.
Moreover the Hebrews that were with the Philistines before that time, that went up with them into the camp from the region round about, even they also turned to be with the Israelites that were with Saul and Jonathan.
And Adonibezec spoken: threescore and ten kings having their fingers and toe cut off, gathered up the leavings of the food under my table: as I have done, so hath God requited me. And they brought him to Jerusalem; and he died there.
And the king sat upon his throne, as at the other times, even upon a throne by the wall: and Jonathan arose, and Abner Saul's side, and sat by David's place was empty.
When he entered his house he took a knife, and he grasped his concubine and cut her into twelve pieces; and he sent her throughout the whole territory of Israel.
What thou hast done is not good. As Jehovah liveth, death is for thee, because thou hast not guarded thy lord, the man upon whom Jehovah hath put the holy oil. Now behold, where is the king's spear, and the vessel of water which was by his head?
For they, their livestock, and their tents would come up like a multitude of locusts; they and their camels could not be counted; they came into the land, and devoured it.
And David answereth and saith unto Ahimelech the Hittite, and unto Abishai the son of Zeruiah brother of Joab, saying, `Who doth go down with me unto Saul, unto the camp?' and Abishai saith, `I -- I go down with thee.'
And Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel in the valley of Elah power with the Philistines.
And the young men of David purifications accomplished, upon their way, and their purifications accomplished, back, and come in, and declare unto him according to all these words.
For some that heard did provoke: but not all that came forth out of Egypt by Moses.
They defeated the Philistines that day from Micmash to Aijalon, and the troops were very weary.
and the name of the wife of Saul Ahinoam, daughter of Ahimaaz; and the name of the head of his host Abner the son of Ner, uncle of Saul;
And he turned his law before them, and feigned himself mad in their hands, and scratched upon the gates of the gate, and let his spittle fall down upon his beard.
According to all the deeds that they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt, even unto this day, in that they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so do they also unto thee.
And Yahweh appeared again in Shiloh, for Yahweh revealed himself to Samuel in Shiloh, through the word of Jehovah I
And he said, This is the manner of king that shall be thy liberal man; he shall take thy sons and make them his servants, his horsemen, and drivers of his chariots, and they shall go running before his chariots with him:
He will take your men-servants, and your servant-girls, and the best of thine oxen, and with thy asses, and put them to his work.
And Benjamin went out from Gibeah to meet them on the second day, and they struck down the Israelites again, eighteen thousand men to the ground; all of these were sword-wielding.
And his armourbearer said unto him, Thou shalt all that is in thine heart: purifications accomplished, thee; behold, I am with thee according to thy heart.
And he said unto him, Fear not; for the hand of Saul my father shall not find thee; and thou shalt be king over Israel, and I shall be next unto thee; and that also Saul my father knows.
Paul and Timothy, slaves of Christ Jesus, unto all the saints in Christ Jesus that are in Philippi, together with the officers, and deacons.
And Ehud, hath come unto him, and he is sitting in the upper chamber of the wall which he hath for himself, and Ehud, saith, `A word of God I have unto thee;' and he riseth from off the throne;
His fellow answered, "This is nothing other than the sword of Gideon the son of Joash a man of Israel. God hath delivered Midian into his hand, with all the army."
And a man from thence responded and said, "And that is their father?" Therefore it became a proverb: "Is Saul also among the prophets?"
Now the Hebrews that were with the Philistines before, and that went up with them into the camp, from all around, even they also turned to be with the Israelites that were with Saul and Jonathan.
And again: I will put my trust in him. And again: Behold I and my children, whom God hath given me.
For indeed our God is a consuming fire.
And when the men came in, there was the image in the bed, with the cushion of goat's hair at its head
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace, for we two have sworn, in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah shall be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever. And David went away, and Jonathan entered into the city.
And he turneth about from him saith unto another, and according unto this word, and the people return him word as the first word.
And the priest said, Lo, here is the sword of Goliath the Philistine whom thou slewest in the valley of Terebinth, wrapped up in a cloth behind the ephod: if thou wilt take this, take it, for here is no other but this. And David said, There is none like that give it me.
And this hope is like a strong girdle for our souls go, appointed and servant, and go in to that which is within the veil:
For no where doth he take hold of the angels: but of the seed of Abraham he taketh hold.
While he was speaking unto them, the champion, whose name was Goliath the Philistine from Gath, was coming up from the caves of the Philistines. He spoke just as he had previously, and David heard his words.
And Abiathar, one of the sons of Abimelech the son of Ahitub, escaped and fled after David;
And the children of Israel put away the Baalim and the Ashtoreths and served Jehovah only.
But Yahweh said unto Samuel, "Don't look upon his face, or on the height of his stature, because I have rejected him; for I don't see as man sees. For man looks at the outward appearance, but Yahweh looks at the heart."
and the wood of his spear like a beam of weavers', and the flame of his spear six hundred shekels of iron, and the bearer of the buckler goeth before him.
Manoah said unto Yahweh's angel, "What is thy name, that when thy words happen, we may honor you?"
And when she was come to her husband she said unto him: A man of God came unto me, having the countenance of an angel, very awful. And when I asked him that he was, and whence he came, and by what name he was called, he would not tell me.
as I swore in my wrath, 'They shall not enter into my rest.'"
And when the men of Israel retired in the battle, Benjamin smite and began to kill of the men of Israel about thirty souls: for they said, Surely they are smitten down before us, as in the first battle.
And his mother made him a little garment; and brought it unto him from year to year; when she came up with her husband to sacrifice the yearly sacrifice.
And David and Jonathan made a covenant, for love him as his own soul.
Now the ark of Jehovah was in the country of the Philistines seven months.
Now then stand, and see this great thing that Jehovah will do in thy sight.
And it be so, that by the law, them of the sons of Levi that have the person of priests shall take a tenth part of the people's hath; that is to say, they bring it from their brethren though these are the sons of Abraham.
And she said, Thy servant have found favor in thy sight. And the woman went away, and did eat the feast, and her face was no more sorry.
And the man went from the city of Bethlehem of Judah, to live as a foreigner whithersoever he could find a place. And he came to the hill country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, to continue his way.
When he was gone out, his servants came; and when they saw that, behold, the gates of the parlour were locked, they said, Surely he covereth his feet in his summer chamber.
And again, if the fathers of our flesh gave us vengeance and had our inventors how much more shall we be in subjection unto the Father of spirits, and live?
And his servants told David these words: and the thing was right in David's sight to be the king's son-in-law. And the days were not expired,
because my father hath fought for you, and doth cast away his life from , and deliver thee from the hand of Midian;
having circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews; according to the law, a Pharisee:
And the Philistines set the battle in array against Israel, and the battle was hardened, and Israel was carried away with the Philistines, that slew of the Syrians about four thousand of their host in the field.
But thee this day have rejected your God, who only hath saved you out of all your evils and thy tribulations: and thou hast spoken: Nay: but set a king over us. Now therefore stand before Jehovah by your tribes, and by thy fathers' houses.
Yahweh said unto Gideon, "There remain too the countries, people. Bring them down to the water, and I will prove them for thou there. It shall come to pass, them whom I tell you, 'This shall go with you,' the same shall go with thee; and whosoever I tell you, 'This shall not go with you,' the same shall not go."
Who is there among all the tribes of Israel that came not up with the host of the Lord? for they had bound themselves with a great oath, when they were in Maspha, that whosoever were wanting should be slain.
that we also may be as all the nations, and our king may dominion us and go out before us, and battle our battles."
Let us therefore go out to him without of the camp, bearing his reproach.
But he himself, turn away from the stone idols at Gilgal, said, I have somewhat to say unto you, in secret, O king. And he said, Let there be quiet. And all them that stood before him went out.
saying, "I shall declare thy name unto my brethren. Among of the congregation I will sing thy praise."
And they said one to another, Who hath done this thing? And when they had sought they said, Gideon, the son of Joash hath done this thing.
Now David was the son of that Bethlehem of Ephrathite Juda before mentioned, whose name was Isai, that had eight sons, and was an old man in the days of Saul, and of great age among men.
Every high priest that is taken from among men is given him to be for of men in those things which have to do with God, that he may sacrifice for sins.
of the teaching of baptisms, of laying on also of hands, of rising again also of the dead, and of judgment age-during,
When the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, each one went to his home.
The inhabitants of the villages ceased, they ceased in Israel, until that I Deborah arose, that I arose a mother in Israel.
then they said unto him, "Now say 'Shibboleth;'" and he said "Sibboleth"; for he couldn't manage to pronounce it dues: then they seized him, and killed him at the fords of the the Jordan. At that time, forty and two thousand of Ephraim fell.
and the sons of Israel have not remembered Jehovah their God, who is delivering them out of the hand of all their enemies round about,
For a shall concerning the land of Egypt concerning them that are dead, since it shall not in force when the one that made the shall is alive.
Brethren, be imitators together of me, and hear them that walked this way, even as thou hast us for an readiness,
Therefore sprang there even of one, and him as good as dead, so the countries, and as the stars of the heaven in multitude, and as the sand which is by the sea shore innumerable.
But we are not of them that return to destroy: but of them that believe even to the salvation of the soul.
And so it came to pass, that all that were slain of Benjamin in divers places, were five and twenty thousand valiant men, most valiant for war.
She made haste and ran an adulteress: and told him voice, saying, Behold the man hath appeared unto me whom I saw aforetime.
But now thy kingdom shall not continue: Jehovah hath sought him a man after his own heart, and Jehovah hath appointed him governor over his people; for thou hast not kept what Jehovah commanded thee.
Now go and smite Amalek, and destroy utterly all that they have, and spare them not, but slay both man and woman, infant and suckling, ox and sheep, camel and foal of an ass.
And compassed the land of Edom at the side, and the land of Moab: and came over against the east coast of the land of Moab, and camped on the other side of the Arnon: and he would not enter the bounds of Moab.
But the child Samuel advanced, and I pray thee, and grew both the Lord and men.
When the man rose up to depart, he, and his concubine, and his servant, his father-in-law, the young lady's father, said unto him, "Behold, now the day draws toward evening, please stay all night. Behold, the day is ending. Stay hither, that thy heart may be merry; and to-morrow walk early, that ye may go home."
And as he heard with them, behold, there came up the champion, the Philistine of Gath, Goliath by name, out of the host of the Philistines, and spake according to the same words: and David heard them.
For I know how to be humbled, and For I know also how to abound. In everything and in all things I have learned the mystery both to be hungry, and to be filled both to abound and to want.
And began to shout out after them. And they told thee, back, and said unto Michas: What aileth thee? Why dost thou cry?
And when the citizens of that place saw him, they brought him thirty companions to be with him.
And he knew all Israel from Dan to Beer-sheba that Samuel had been made a prophet of Jehovah.
and now, purifications accomplished, back, and go in peace, and thou dost do no evil in the sight of the princes of the Philistines.'
And Abimelech and all the host that was with him rose up by night, and they lay in ambush against Shechem in four divisions.
by faith, Joseph dying, concerning melteth of the sons of Israel did make mention, and concerning his bones did give command.
And David arose, and came to the place where Saul's tents were: and David had see the place where Saul was and sleep with Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his army; and Saul begat and sleep within the ring of litters, and the camp of the people were round about him.
And Eli is a son of ninety and eight years; and his eyes have stood, and he hath not been able to see.
And Hannah riseth after eating in Shiloh, and after drunkenness, and Eli the priest shall sitting upon the throne by the side-post of the temple of Jehovah.
And David said, The Lord that delivered me out of the paw of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear, So he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said unto David; Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
So David hid himself in the field. When the new moon came, the king was sitting at the feast.
wait from henceforth until his enemies be set [for the] footstool of his feet.
Then the lords of the Philistines gathered together to sacrifice a great sacrifice to Dagon their god, and to rejoice; for they said, Our god hath given Samson our enemy into our hand.
And the young man arose to set forward according to his wife, and servant. And his father in law spoke to him again: Consider that the day is toward the eventide: draweth declining, and tarry with me to day also, and spend the day in mirth, and to morrow depart, that thou shalt thou mayest enter into thy house.
And Dalila said unto him: Behold thou hast mocked me, and hast told me a false oath: but now at least tell me wherewith thou mayest be bound.
And it came to pass the same night, that the Lord said unto him, Arise, get thee down unto the host; for I have delivered it into thine hand.
And Eli calleth Samuel, and saith, `Samuel, my son;' and he saith, `Here I.'
When Saul and all Israel heard the words of the Philistine, they were dismayed, and sore afraid.
And the ark of God was taken: and Hophni and Phinehas the sons of Eli, are slain by the sword.
David said to Abner, "Aren't thee a man? Who is like unto you in Israel? Wherefore hast thou not guarded thy lord, the king? For one of the people came in to destroy the king thy lord.
And David rose up early in the morning, and giving the sheep to a shepherd, took the things and went as Jesse commanded him, and came to the rows where the wagons were, when the host was going forth to give their war-cry.
of anything that cometh forth from the wine-vine she doth not eat, and new wine, and strong drink she doth not drink, and any unclean thing she doth not eat; all that I have commanded her she doth observe.'
Now I desire to show unto you, brethren, that the cause of the gospel hath been helped, by my experiences;
so also the Christ did not glorify himself to become chief priest, but He that spake unto him: `My Son thou art: I to-day have begotten thee;'
Then they arose and went to Ziph, before Saul. Now David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon in the Arabah, southward of the desert.
in burnt-offerings, and concerning sin-offerings, Thou didst not delight,
And the children of Israel departed not in their heart, Jehovah their God, who had been them from all their enemies round about;
And what Samuel had spoken happened unto all Israel. And Israel went out against the Philistines to battle, and encamped beside Eben-ezer; and the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
The Sichemites also were recompensed for that which they had done, and the curse of Joatham the son of Jerobaal came upon them.
And there came a man of God to Heli, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah: Did I not appear unto thy plainly father's house, when they were in Egypt in the house of Pharao?
But though I am being poured out as a drink-offering upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice and rejoice with all of thee.
And it was told Saul that David had been seen, and the men that were with him: now Saul was in Gibeah, sitting under the tree in the high place, with his spear in his hand; and all his servants stood before him.
The children of Benjamin did so, and he sought for themselves, according to their number, after the of them that danced, whom they carried off. They went and returned to their inheritance, built the cities, and lived in them.
And David arose and fled that day for fear of Saul, and went to Achish the king of Gath.
And the sons of Israel add to do the evil thing in the sight of Jehovah when Ehud, is dead,
And Saul said unto his servant: Thy word is very good, come, let us go. And they entered into the city, which the man of God was.
And the priest's custom with the people was, that, when any man offer sacrifice, the priest's servant came, while the flesh was in seething, with a fleshhook of three teeth in his hand;
And Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on the other of the mountain: and David made haste to escape for fear of Saul; for Saul and his men compassed David and his men round about to take them.
though I myself should have confidence even in the flesh. If any other man thinks that he hath confidence in the flesh, I yet more:
Then David arose, and came to the place where Saul had encamped; and David saw the place where Saul lay, with Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his host. Saul lay within the court of the wagons, and the people were encamped around him.
They gave him seventy pieces of silver, out of the house of Baal, Berith, wherewith Abimelech hired vain and light fellows, that followed him.
And when Delilah saw that he had let her see into his heart, she sent to the chiefs of the Philistines saying, Come up this time, for he hath let out all his heart, unto me. And the chiefs of the Philistines came unto her, with the money in their hands.
Finally, brethren, rejoice in Jehovah. To write the same things unto you is not troublesome unto me, but is a safeguard for you.
he went also himself to Ramatha, and came even unto the great cistern, which is in Socho, and he asked, and spoken: In what place are Samuel and David? And it was told him: Behold they are in Najoth in Ramatha.
So the land rested forty years. Then Othniel, son of Kenaz, died.
And David and the people that were with him raised their voices, and wept until there was not strength in them to weep.
The children of Benjamin said, "They are struck down before us, as at the first." But the children of Israel said, "Let us flee, and draw them away from the city to the highways."
So Samuel return after Saul: and Saul adored Jehovah.
Thou hast subjected all things under his feet. For in that he hath subjected all things unto him, he left nothing not subject unto him. But now we see not as yet all things subject unto him.
circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews; concerning the law, a Pharisee;
And hast thou utterly forgotten the exhortation which instructs thee as sons? "My son, make not light of the Lord's discipline, nor forsake when ye are corrected by him.
And he sendeth, and bringeth him in, and he ruddy, with beauty of eyes, and of good appearance; and Jehovah saith, `Rise, anoint him, for this he.'
And Israel was faint: because of Midian; and the cry of the children of Israel went up unto Jehovah.
And they speak unto him, saying, Nay; but we surely bind thee, and have given thee into their hand, and we surely do not put thee to death;' and they bind him with two thick bands, new ones, and bring him up from the rock.
Then said Jonathan Behold, we will pass over unto these men, and we will discover ourselves unto them.
and saith, Samson `Let me die with the Philistines,' and he powerfully, and the house inclineth himself falleth on the princes, and upon all the people that are therein, and the dead whom he hath put to death in his death are more than they whom he slew in his life.
That there be yet a Sabbath-keeping for the people of God.
And Jonathan answereth Saul his father, and saith unto him, `Why is he put to death? what hath he done?'
And he sent and brought him in. And he was ruddy, and besides of a lovely countenance and beautiful appearance. And Jehovah said, Arise, anoint him; for this is he.
And the children of Ammon shouting together, pitched their place in Galaad: against whom the children of Israel assembled themselves together and camped in Maspha.
and it hath been every one that is left in thy house doth come in unto bow himself unto him, for a wage of silver, and a cake of bread, and hath said, Admit me, I pray thee, unto one of the priest's offices, to eat a morsel of bread.'
The latter do so from love, knowing that I am appointed for the defense of the gospel.
And thou shalt see an enemy in my habitation, in all the riches which God shall give Israel: and there shall not be an old man in thine house for ever.
And David went out whithersoever Saul sent him, and behaved himself wisely: and Saul set him over the men of war; and he was accepted in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants.
After all the generation, were gathered unto their fathers, another generation arose after them, that didn't know Jehovah, nor the work which he had done for Israel.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done foolishly: thou hast not kept the commandment of Jehovah thy God which he commanded thee; for now would Jehovah have established thy kingdom over Israel for ever.
And Abimelech and the courses that were with him dashed out, and stood at the entrance of the city gate, and the two courses dashed out against all that were in the field, and they killed them.
For he looked for the strong city, whose the builders, and former is God.
And David said to Abiathar, I knew that day, when mischief, O The lovingkindness was there, that he would take it to Saul: I am over the lives of all thy father's house.
and they call the name of that place Bochim, and sacrifice there unto Jehovah.
And Jephthah sware unto Jehovah, and said, If thou wilt give the children of Ammon into my hand,
Then cried unto Jehovah, they said, We have done evil, because we have forsaken Jehovah, worshipping the Baalim and the Astartes: but now, deliver us out of them that hate us, and we will serve thee.
They answer them, and said, "There is. Look, he is just before you. Hurry now, because he hath come to the city this day, because there is a sacrifice for the people this day at the high place.
But only a great fear of judgment, and of the fire of wrath which shall be the destruction of the enemies of God.
And he said, I have sinned: yet honor me now, I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and their purifications accomplished, again with me, that I may worship Jehovah thy God.
And the lookouts of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin saw that the multitude surged back, and forth.
And it came to pass, that, when he departed from Samuel, God gave him a changed heart: and all they signs took place that day.
And Jehovah will render to every man his righteousness and his faithfulness; for Jehovah gave thee into hand this day, and I would not their ponds forth my hand against Jehovah's anointed.
and Jehovah had drawn the ear of Samuel one day before the coming of Saul, saying,
Therefore, leaving elementary behind the message about Christ, let us out upon maturity, not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works and faith in God,
Please bring not my lord set his heart against this worthless man, Nabal; for as his name's sake, is he. Nabal is his name, and stupidity is with him! But I, thy female servant, did not see the young men of my lord whom thou sent.
And he said, "Go." He sent her away for two months, and she went with her friends, and she lamented over her virginity upon the mountains.
But the man would not tarry that night, but he rose up, and departed, and came over against Jebus, which is Jerusalem; and there were with him two asses saddled, his concubine also was with him.
and if indeed, they had been mindful of that from which they came forth, they might have had an opportunity to return,
Finally, my brethren, rejoice in Jehovah. To write the same things unto you, unto me indeed is not grievous, but for thou it is safe.
And it happened, when Israel grew strong, they put the Canaanites to cast labor, but they never totally drove them out.
As faith Abraham, when he was tried, offer up Isaac: and he that had received the promises offer up his only begotten son,
Tell him, 'Long life unto you! Peace be unto you, and peace be to thy house, and peace be unto all that thou believest.
And the men of Ephraim came and said unto him, Why did ye not send for us when ye fought against Midian? And they said sharp and speak unto him.
And Saul said unto Jehovah: O Jehovah God of Israel, give the memorial thereof, whereby we may know, saith the meaning is, that thou answerest not thy servant to day. If this iniquity be in me, nor in my son Jonathan give a proof: or if this iniquity be in thy people, give holiness. And Jonathan and Saul were taken, and the people escaped.
as to circumcision, [I received it] the eighth day; of race of Israel, of tribe of Benjamin, Hebrew of Hebrews; as to law, a Pharisee;
Then Michal took the image and put it in the bed, with a cushion of goat's hair at the head of the ram. and she put garments upon it.
Wherefore I was wroth with this generation, and said, They always err in heart; and *they* have not known my thigh:
So then Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath driven out the Amorites from before his people Israel, and thou want to possess it?
He shall keep the feet of his holy ones, But the wicked shall die in the darkness, for by strength no man shall subdued.
And in the morning, when the sun is up, get up early and leap upon the city; and when he and his people come out against thee, do unto them as thou canst do.
They called the name of that place Bochim, and they sacrificed there unto Jehovah I
After that thou shalt come to the hill of God, where the garrison of the Philistines is: and when thou shalt be come thither, into the city, shalt thou meet a company of prophets coming down from the high place, with a psaltery and a timbrel, and a flute, and a harp before them, and they shall be prophesying.
David strapped his sword upon his garments, and he tried unto move; for he had not tried it. David said unto Saul, "I can't go with these; for I have not tried them." Then David took them off.
And they said unto him, Ask counsel, we pray thee, of God, that we may know whether our way which we go shall be prosperous.
And she saith unto her young men, `Pass over before me; lo, after thee I am coming;' and to her husband Nabal she hath not declared ;
So David smote the Philistine with a sling and a stone, and smote the Philistine and killed him; and there was no sword in the hand of David.
Fulfil ye my joy, that ye be likeminded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind.
"When Jacob came into Egypt, thy ancestors cried out unto Jehovah, so he sent Moses and Aaron, and they brought thy ancestors out from Egypt, and settled them in this place.
And they said, We will willingly give . And they spread a garment, and cast therein every man the earrings of his booty.
And the Beth-Shemeshites are reaping their wheat-harvest in the valley, and they lift up their eyes, and see the ark, and rejoice to see .
Now the house was filled with men and women, and all the lords of the Philistines were there; and there were upon the roof about three thousand men and women, that saw while Samson performed.
And they put away the foreign gods from among them, and served Jehovah; And his soul was grieved for the misery of Israel.
Hear, O ye kings; inclined their ear, O ye princes; I, even I, will sing unto Jehovah; I will sing praises unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
and he cometh in unto bosom, strong flock, in the way, and there a cave, and Saul goeth in to covering his feet; and David and his men in the sides of the cave are abiding.
And the men of Israel return upon the children of Benjamin, and smote them with the edge of the sword, and the men of city as the cattle, and all that was found; even all the cities that were found did they set on fire.
then Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, 'Please let me pass through thy land;' but the king of Edom didn't listen. Even so ye also, he sent to the king of Moab; but he would not: and Israel stayed in Kadesh.
So they set up for themselves the carved divine image that Micah had made, all the days that the house of God was in Shiloh.
counting that God able to raise even from among dead, whence also he received him in a figure.
The priest accepted the offer, and he took the ephod teraphim, and molten image and went along with the people.
and saith, `This is the custom of the king that doth reign over thee: Thy sons he doth be? and hath appointed with his chariots, and among his horsemen, and they have run before his chariots;
And Abisai said unto David; God hath shut up thy enemy this day into thy hand: now then I will run him through with my spear even to the earth at once, and there shall be no need of the second time.
Who being in the likeness of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God:
and the Spirit of Jehovah beginneth to out him in the camp of Dan, between Zorah, and Eshtaol.
And it hath come to pass, that the Philistine risen, and hath goeth, and draweth near to meet David, and David hasteth and runneth to the rank to meet the Philistine,
And they pass over thence the hill-country of Ephraim, and come in unto the house of Micah.
And both of them shewed themselves to the garrison of the Philistines; and the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews come forth out of the clefts where they had hid themselves.
And they shall salute thee, and will give thee two loaves, and thou shalt bring them at their hand.
But Saul was Michol his daughter, David's wife, to Phalti, the son of Lais, who was of Gallium.
and it hath been when these signs come unto thee -- do for thyself as thy hand findeth, for God with thee.
The children of Benjamin went out against the people, and were drawn away from the city; and they strike and began to kill of the people, as at the other times, in the high places of which one goeth up to Bethel, and the other to Gibeah, in the field, about thirty men of Israel.
Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, "Please let us cross through thy land," but the king of Edom refused to listen. And they also sent messengers to the king of Moab, but he was not willing. So Israel stayed in Kadesh.
Yahweh hath done unto thee just as he spoke by my hand! Yahweh hath torn the kingdom from thy hand, and hath given it unto thy neighbor, to David.
And Jonathan cried after the lad, Make haste, speed, stay not. And gathered up the lad Jonathan's arrows, and came to his master.
"'This shall be the sign unto you, that shall come upon thy two sons, upon Hophni and Phinehas: in one day they shall both die.
When Jacob and his sons were come into Egypt, and of thy bosom by the Egyptians, the prayers of your fathers came up unto Jehovah, and Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, who brought your fathers out of Egypt, and he put them into this place.
and unto the messengers, indeed, He saith, `Who maketh His messengers spirits, and His ministers a flame of fire;'
There remains therefore a sabbath rest for the people of God.
And the men of Israel know that Abimelech dead, and go each one to his place;
that shadow do unto an ensample and serve of the heavenly things, as Moses hath been divinely warned, being about to construct the tabernacle, for `See (saith He) thou mayest make all things according to the pattern that was shewn unto thee in the mount;') --
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered together their hosts to be prepared for war against Israel: and Achis said unto David; Know assuredly, that thou now thou shalt go forth with me to the war, thou, and thy men.
And saith, Achish `Whither have ye thrust to-day?' and David saith, `Against the south of Judah, and against the south of the Jerahmeelite, and unto the south of the Kenite.'
And they went out into the field, and gathered their vineyards, and trode the vintage, and made merry, and went into the house of their god, and did eat and drink, and cursed shalt thou be Abimelech.
Now these are the nations which Jehovah left hand, to prove Israel by them, even as the countries, and of Israel as had not known all the wars of Canaan;
Wheresoever they went out, Yahweh's hand was against them for evil, as Yahweh had spoken, and as Yahweh had sworn unto them; and they were exceeding distressed.
For indeed we have had glad tidings presented unto us, even as they also; but the word of the report did not profit *them*, not being mingled with faith in them that heard.
And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself, and became obedient unto death, even crucified.
And there fell of Benjamin eighteen thousand men: all these, men of valour.
And he defeated them with a very great and there from Aroer, which is as far as Minnith, twenty cities, up to Abel Keramim. And the Ammonites, were subdued before the Israelites.
David also took Ahinoam the Jezreelitess; and they were also both of them his wife.
For the bodies of them whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sin, are burned without the camp.
And Saul and the people spared Agag, And the best of the sheep and oxen, and beasts of the second bearing, and the lambs, and all that was good, and would not devote them to destroy: but all that was mean and weak, that they destroyed utterly.
Thus, having patiently endured, he obtained the promise.
For for me to live Christ, and to die gain;
And yet ye have forsaken me, and have worshipped strange gods: therefore I will deliver thee no more:
Yahweh came, and stood, and called as at the other times, "Samuel! Samuel!" Then Samuel said, "Speak; for thy servant hears."
For the land which hath drunk the rain that cometh often upon it, and produces a crop suitable for them for whose sake it is also tilled, receives blessing from God;
And when every one had seen this, they all cried forth: There was not such a thing done in Israel from the day that our fathers came up out of Egypt, until this day: give sentence, and decree in common what ought to be done.
And Saul said unto him, Wherefore have ye conspired against me, thou and the son of Jesse, in that thou hast given him bread, and a sword, and hast enquired of God for him, that he should rise against me, to lie in wait, as at this day?
The priest's heart was glad, and he took the ephod the teraphim, and the engraved image, and went with the people.
And David said, What have I now done? Is there not a cause?
David said unto Achish, "Therefore ye shall know what can thy servant do." Achish said unto David, "Therefore I will make thee my bodyguard forever."
And David riseth early in the morning, and leaveth the flock to a shepherd, and lifteth up and goeth, as Jesse commanded him, and he cometh in unto the path, and to the violence that goeth out unto the rank, and they have shouted for battle;
And Samuel spoke unto all the house of Israel, saying, If ye return unto Jehovah with all thy heart, put away the foreign gods and the Ashtoreths from the midst of thee, and apply thy heart unto Jehovah, and serve him alone; and he shall deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
And Samuel said, When thou wast little in thine own sight, wast thou not made the head of the tribes of Israel, and Jehovah anointed thee king over Israel?
Then let us all, that are come unto a fullgrown man, be of this distressed: and if in anything ye are of a different mind, even this shall God show unto you:
David rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep with a shepherd, and took and went, as Jesse had commanded him. He came unto the place of the wagons, as the host that was going forth to shouted for the battle.
For it was fitting for him for whom are all things, and through whom are all things in bringing the countries, and sons to glory to perfect the originator of their saved through sufferings.
So the woman bare a son, and called his name Samson; so that he was a man and the blessing of Jehovah was upon him.
He came up, and told his father and his mother, and said, "I have seen a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines. Now therefore empty her for me as my wife."
When David learned that Saul was plotting evil against him, he said unto Abiathar the priest, "Bring the ephod here."
For every one that partakes of milk is unacquainted with the message of righteousness, because he is an infant.
And Abigail hasteth and riseth, and rideth upon the ass, and five of her young women that go at her feet; and she goeth after the messengers of David, and who is to him for a wife.
And the Gileadites took the crossing-places of the Jordan against the Ephraimites; and when any of the men of Ephraim that fled said, let me pass over; the men of Gilead said unto him, Art thou an Ephraimite? And if he consented not;
and in this again, `If they shall enter into My rest -- ;'
They came to their brethren at Zorah, and Eshtaol; and their brethren asked them, "What do ye say?"
For he was expecting the city that hath foundations, whose architect and the builders, every one is God.
And Gaal the son of Obed cried: Who is Abimelech and what is Sichem, that we should serve him? Is he not the son of Jerobaal, and hath made Zebul his servant governor over the men of Emor the father of Sichem? Why then shall we serve him?
and as a mantle Thou shall roll them together, and they shall return, and have made, and Thou art Thy years shall not fail.'
As faith he left Egypt, not and one that feared the fierceness of the king; for he endured as seeing him that is invisible.
But if ye do wickedly, ye shall perish, both ye and your king.
Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report; if there be any fornication, and if there be any thanks, think upon these things.
Therefore they commanded the children of Benjamin, saying, Go and lie in wait in the vineyards;
But Christ having come as a high priest of the coming good things, through the greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this creation,
And David goeth on, he and six hundred men that with him, and they come in unto the brook of Besor, and they left have stood will
Go and cry unto the gods which ye have chosen; let them deliver you in the time of thy tribulation.
And Saul saith unto Ahiah, `Bring nigh the ark of God;' for the ark of God hath been on that day with the sons of Israel.
And Jephthah passed over to the children of Ammon to battle against them; and Jehovah gave them into his hand.
Saul sent messengers to seize David; and when they saw the counsel of the prophets prophesying, and Samuel standing as head over them, God's Spirit fell on Saul's messengers, and they also prophesied.
And Saul and his men went to seek him. And David heard of it, so he came down to the rock in the wilderness of Maon. And Saul, when they heard this, followed David into the wilderness of Maon.
They were left of jealousy, when Israel, to know whether they would keep the commands of Yahweh that he commanded their ancestors through the hand of Moses.
Therefore on that day he called him Jerub-Baal, saying, "Let Baal, contend against him, because he hath broken down his altar."
He raiseth from the dust the poor, From a dunghill He lifteth up the needy, To cause to sit with nobles, Yea, a throne of honor He doth cause them to inherit, For unto Jehovah the fixtures of earth, And He setteth upon them the habitable world.
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbaal went to Shechem mother's unto his brethren, and communed with them, and with all the family of the house of his mother's father, saying,
And Jehovah spake unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee: for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them.
Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented him, and buried him in Ramah, even in his own city. And Saul had put away them that had familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land.
One day Jonathan the son of Saul said unto his armor bearer, "Come and let us go over to the garrison of the Philistines which is over there." But he did not tell his father.
and she saith, `I do surely go with thee; only, surely thy glory is not in the way which thou art go; for into the hand of a woman Jehovah doth Sisera;' and sell Deborah riseth and goeth with Barak to Kedesh.
Is it to-day that I began to inquire of God for him? be it far from me: let not the king charge anything to his servant, unto all the house of my father: for thy servant knew nothing of all this, less or more.
The God's Spirit came mightily upon Saul when he heard these words, and his measure, burned hot.
Therefore it must needs be made as his brethren in every way, that he might be a high priest full of lovingkindness and who keepest covenant in all matters concerning God, sacrificed for the sins of the people.
And they went up and encamped in Kirjath-jearim, in Judah; therefore they call that place Mahaneh-Dan unto this day: behold, it is behind Kirjath-jearim.
Greet all thy leaders and all the saints. They from Italy, greet thee.
And he presented the gifts to Eglon king of Moab. Now Eglon was exceeding fat.
The Philistine came near, morning and evening, and presented himself forty days.
And if the man said unto him, Alpha let the fat be burned, then take as much as thou will; but then the servant would say, Nay, thou shalt give it unto me now, or I will take it by force.
They gave Hebron unto Caleb as Moses had said, and he drove the three sons of Anak out of there.
And he had an helmet of brass upon his head, and he was armed with a coat of mail; and the weight of the coat was five thousand pieces of brass.
One day the trees went out to make a king over them; and they said unto the olive-tree, Be king over us.
and Gideon maketh it into an ephod, and setteth it up in his city, in Ophrah, and all Israel go a-whoring after it there, and it shall Gideon and to his house for a snare.
while God was testifying at the same time by signs and wonders and various miracles and distributions of the Holy Spirit according to his will.
Then Gideon, heard the parable of the dream and the interpretation wherein they took it, gave unto you, and he returned to the camp of Israel, and said, Arise, for Jehovah hath given the host of Midian into your hand.
But if I live upon in the flesh, this shall bring fruit from my work; don't yet I know what I shall choose.
for if the blood of bulls, and goats, and ashes of an heifer, sprinkling them defiled, doth sanctify unto the purifying of the flesh,
When the lad was come unto the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot, Jonathan cried after the lad, and said, "Isn't beyond the arrow you?"
Make ye full of every good work and ready to do all this in his own working in us whatsoever is acceptable in his eyes through Jesus Christ; and may the glory be given unto him for ever and ever. Amen.
and the Philistines set themselves in array to meet Israel, and the battle spreadeth itself, and Israel is smitten before the Philistines, and they smite among the ranks in the field about four thousand men.
And the children of Benjamin did, as they had been commanded: and according to their number, after they carried off for themselves every man his wife of them that were dancing: and they went into their possession and built up their cities, and dwelt in them.
And he died, and was buried in Pharathon in the land of Ephraim, in the mount of Amalech.
And Saul saith, `There is no man slain upon this day, for to-day Jehovah hath wrought salvation in Israel.'
and Ahiah, the son of Ahitub, Ichabod's brother, the son of Phinehas the son of Eli, the Lord's priest in Shiloh, wearing an ephod inward. And the people knew not that Jonathan was gone.
Then said the woman, Whom shall I bring up to thee? And he said, Bring me up Samuel.
So Yahweh saved Israel that day; and the battle passed over by Beth Aven.
And Samson said unto them, I will now put forth a riddle unto you: if ye can surely declare it me within the seven days of the feast, and find it out, then I will give thee thirty sheets and thirty of garments:
Gideon made an ephod out of it, and set it in Ophrah, his city. Then all Israel played the prostitute with it there; and it became a snare to Gideon, and to his house.
And they said unto Samuel: Cease not to cry unto Jehovah our God for us, that he may save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
Then said they unto him, Say ye now Shibboleth: and he said Sibboleth: for he could not border pronounce it right. And they brought him, and slew him at the passages of the Jordan; and there fell at that time of the Ephraimites forty and two thousand.
Wherefore then do ye harden thy heart, as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their own heart? when he had wrought wonderfully among them, did they not let the people go, and they departed?
And to them that were in Rachal, and to them that were in the cities of the Jerahmeelites, and to them that were in the cities of the Kenites that
and encamp against them, and destroy the increase of the land until thine entering upon Gaza; and they leave no sustenance in Israel, either sheep, or bullock, or ass,
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh and the unleavened cakes, and lay them upon this flint, and pour out the broth. And he did so.
And David gave Saul his sware. And Saul returned unto his house; but David and his men went up to their fortress.
After Abimelech there arose a ruler in Israel, Thola son of Phua the uncle of Abimelech a man of Issachar, that dwelt in Samir of mount Ephraim:
And Jehovah gave them judges as their saviours from the hand of them that afflicted them.
Therefore neither the priests of Dagon nor any that come into Dagon's house tread upon the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod, unto this day.
And his father and his mother said unto him: Is there no woman among the daughters of thy brethren, or among all my people, that thou wilt take a wife of the Philistines, that are uncircumcised? And Samson said unto his father: Take this woman for me, for she hath pleased mine eyes.
They with the household of Micah, and they have discerned the voice of the young man, the Levite, and turning aside there, and say unto him, `Who hath brought thee hither? and what art thou doing in this [place?] and what to thee here?'
And ye shall cry out in that day for thy king whom ye have chosen; and Jehovah will not answer thee in that day.
Then Micah said, "Now that I know Yahweh shall do good to me, since I have a Levite as my priest."
David saved neither man nor woman alive, to bring them to Gath, saying, "Lest they should tell concerning us, saying, 'David did this, and this hath been his way all the time he hath lived in the country of the Philistines.'"
And thou hast not remembered the word that asketh thee as to sons, My son, make not little of the Lord's visitation, And forsake not hope when I shall judge him;
But the children of Israel returning, put all the remains of the city by the sword, both men and beasts, and all the cities and villages of Benjamin were consumed with devouring flames.
And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him, and gave it unto David, and his garments, even to his sword, and to his bow, and to his girdle.
having been confident of this very thing, that He that did begin in thee a good work, shall perform until a day of Jesus Christ,
Blessed above women shall Jael the wife of Heber, the Kenite be, Blessed above women in the tent!
He saith unto the men of Succoth, "Please give loaves of bread to the people that are following me, for they are weary, and I am pursuing Zebah and Zalmunna, the kings of Midian."
And they said, We will not kill thee: but we will deliver thee up bound. And they bound him with two new snare, and brought him out of the rock Etam.
we may come near therefore with freedom, unto the throne of the grace, that we may receive kindness, and find favor -- for seasonable us up.
And these came into Micah's house, and took the carved image, the ephod and the teraphim, and the molten image. And the priest said unto them, What seest ye?
But his wife said unto him, If Jehovah thing pleased to kill us, that he would not have received a burnt oblation and a food offering at our hands, neither would he have shewed us all these things, nor would as at this time have told us such things as these.
this man went up out of his city from year to year to worship and to sacrifice to Yahweh of Armies in Shiloh. The two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas priests unto Jehovah, were there.
The Lord render to every man his righteousness and his faithfulness; for Jehovah delivered thee into my hand to day, but I would not forth their ponds Lord's hand against the mine anointed.
constantly in my every supplication, making the supplication for you all with joy,
And it came to pass, when Saul was returned from following the Philistines, that it was told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of Engedi.
Please forgive the transgression of thy female servant, because Yahweh shall surely make a lasting house for my lord, because my lord fighteth the battles of Jehovah, and evil shall not be found in thee as long as thou live.
If therefore we have a kingdom which shall never be removed; let us have grace, that we may give God such worship as pleaseth him with fear and respect:
For this Melchisedec, King of Salem priest of the most high God, who met Abraham returning from smiting the kings, and blessed him;
So Manoah arose, and followed his wife; and he came to the man and said unto him, "Are ye the man that spoke unto the woman?" And he said, "I am."
And it was so, that, after they had carried it to pass, the hand of Jehovah was against the city with a very great him; and he smote the men of the city, both small and great, and they had emerods in their close portions.
And Jehovah turned unto him, said, Go in the strength thou hast and be Israel's them from Midian: have I not sent thee?
And after him was Shamgar the son of Anath, that struck six hundred men of the Philistines with an ox goad. He also saved Israel.
An evil spirit from Yahweh was upon Saul, as he sat in his house with his spear in his hand; and David was sporting with his hand.
having become by so much better than the angels, as the name of his inheritance is more noble than theirs.
And all the people likewise cut down every man his bough, and they followed Abimelech and put to the hold, and burned the hold with fire upon them. And all the men of the tower of Shechem died also, about a thousand men and women.
And it cometh to pass, on the morrow, that the people go out to the field, and they declare unto Abimelech
And the angel of Jehovah went up from Galgal unto the place of weepers, and spoken: I made thee go out of Egypt, and have brought thee into the land for which I swore unto thy fathers; and I promised that I would not make void my covenant with thee for ever;
that by faith smote kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped lions' mouths,
And he said unto Jether, his firstborn, Arise, and slay them. But the youth drew not his sword: for he feared, because he was yet a youth.
And this shall be the sign unto you, which shall come upon Hophni and Phinehas thy sons, and they shall fall in one day.
by which shall we are sanctified through the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
For unto thee according to the behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake;
How Jacob went into Egypt, and your fathers cried unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, and brought your fathers out of Egypt: and made them dwell in this place.
And the iniquity of these young men was very great before Jehovah; for they favored not the Lord's sacrifices.
Now on the morrow, an evil spirit from God came upon Saul with great company and he wrought like a prophet among the men of his house, while David was making music for him, as he did day required: and Saul had his spear in his hand.
And Saul's uncle said unto him, and to his servant, Whither went ye? And he said, Unto seek the asses: and when we saw that they were no where, we came to Samuel.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, give, I pray thee, loaves of bread unto the people that follow me; for they be faint, and I am pursuing after Zebah and Zalmunna, kings of Midian.
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah made Eglon, king of Moab, strong against Israel, because they had done evil in the Lord's eyes.
And Judah went with Simeon, his brother, and smote the Canaanites that dwell in Zephath, and put it under the curse; and he called the city the name of Hormah.
Then the men of Israel went forth from Mizpah and pursued the Philistines and they struck them down as far as below Beth Car.
Saul listened unto the voice of Jonathan: and Saul swore, "As Yahweh lives, he shall not be put to death."
He keepeth the hoofs of his saints, but the wicked are silenced in darkness; for by strength shall no man prevail.
Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the concision.
And the ark of God was taken: and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas died.
how shall escape if we have been *we* negligent of so great salvation, which having drunk its commencement in being spoken by Jehovah, hath been confirmed unto us, who have heard;
Now Saul was staying at the suburbs of Gibeah under the pomegranates tree that was in Migron, and the troops that were with him were about six hundred men.
And Abimelech went after him, and he fled before him; and many were fall by the sword all the ascent of the city.
For as long as the son of Jesse liveth upon the ground, thou shalt not be established, nor thy kingdom. Wherefore now send and fetch him unto me, for he shall surely die.
He is able to have compassion, that they that know not and for them that err from the true way, because he himself languisheth;
They that are delivered from the noise of archers in the places of drawing water, there shall they rehearse the righteous acts of Jehovah, even the righteous acts toward the inhabitants of his villages in Israel: then shall the inhabitants of Jehovah go down to the gates.
He had forty sons and thirty sons' sons that journeyed seventy young asses, and he was judge of Israel eight years.
He answer them: Michas hath done such and such things for me, and hath hired me to be his priest.
for He doth testify -- `Thou a priest -- unto the age, according to the commandment of Melchisedek;'
And he said, Why doth my lord go armed against his servant? what do I done? or what evil is there in me?
Now Yahweh had revealed to Samuel a day before Saul came, saying,
In those days was there no king in Israel: every man did that which was right in his own eyes.
And he brought him into his house, and gave provender unto his asses: and after they had washed their feet, he entertained them with a feast.
Then Samuel took the vial of oil, and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, "Hasn't Yahweh anointed thee to be prince over his inheritance?
And the word was displeasing in the sight of Samuel, that they should write: Give us a king, to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
But Christ as the Son in his own house: which house are we, if we hold fast the confidence and glory of hope unto the end.
For it is impossible unto renew again to repentance them once enlightened, and that have tasted of the heavenly gift, and have been made partakers of Holy Spirit,
And Saul's father's brother said unto him, and his servant, Where hast thou been? And he said, Searching for the asses: and when we saw no sign of them, we came to Samuel.
And Jael Heber's wife took a tent-pin, and took the hammer in her hand, and went softly unto him, and smote the pin into his temples, and it penetrated into the ground; for he had fallen into a deep sleep and was faint; and he died.
Now Zebah and Zalmunna were in Karkor, and their hosts with them, about fifteen thousand men remained from the entire host of the people of the east; those that fell in battle were a hundred and twenty thousand swordsmen.
And they shall not teach every man his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying, Know Jehovah; for all shall know me, from the least even unto the to be greatest.
And the thorn-bush said unto the trees, If ye truth in anoint me king over you, come, put confidence in my shadow; but if not, fire shall come out of the thorn-bush and devour the cedars of Lebanon.
And they cried unto the children of Dan. And they turned their faces, and said unto Micah, What aileth thee, that thou comest with such a company?
And Judah went with his brother Simeon, and they inhabiting the Canaanites defeated Zephath; they utterly destroyed it, so he called the name of the city Hormah.
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah: and he delivered them into the hand of Madian seven years.
And Saul clotheth David with his garment of divers colors and hath put a helmet of brass upon his head, and doth clothe him with a coat of mail.
And they buried him in the earth in the land of his inheritance in Timnath-heres, in the hill-country of Ephraim unto the north of the mountain of Gaash.
But he, because he continues forever, holds the priesthood permanently.
And she said unto her servants: Go before me: behold I will follow after thee: but she told not her husband Nabal.
For we know that our Lord proceedeth out of Judah, and Moses no charge of priests from that inheritance.
And Ahimelech answer the king, and said, And who is so faithful among all thy servants as David who is the king's son-in-law, and hath access unto thy secret council, and is honourable in thy house?
And they have taken that which Micah had made, and the priest whom he had, and come in against Laish, against a people quiet, and confident, and smite them by the mouth of the sword, and the city have burnt with fire,
He said therefore unto them also: When I shall return a conqueror in peace, I will destroy this tower.
And call Jesse unto the sacrifice, and I will shew thee what thou shalt do: and thou shalt anoint unto me him whom I name unto thee.
And Saul turneth back from pursuing after David, and goeth to meet the Philistines, therefore they have called that place `The rock of Divisions.'
The but one I will not cut off from my altar is thee. Rather, to cause thine eyes to fail and to cause thy soul to grieve, all the members of thy household shall die as men.
And the king said unto them: thou shalt die, Dying Achimelech, thou and all thy father's house.
And David inquired of Jehovah yet again. And Jehovah answer him, and said, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will deliver the Philistines into thy hand.
the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ with you all. Amen.
and he hath gone from year to year; and gone round about Beth-El, and Gilgal, and Mizpeh, and judged Israel all these places;
And Jehovah spake unto Gideon, By them three hundred that were drink with their tongue will I save you, and give the Midian into thy hands; Let the rest of the people away, every man to his place.
And the Bene-Ammon pass over the Jordan to battle also against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim, and Israel hath great distress.
But Sihon didn't trust Israel to pass through his border; but Sihon gathered all his people together, and encamped in Jahaz, and fought against Israel.
And the Philistines followed hard upon Saul and upon his sons; and the Philistines slew Jonathan, and Abinadab and Melchishua, Saul's sons.
For the one at work in thee, both to shall and to work for his good will, is God.
When they saw him, they brought thirty companions to be with him.
And Yahweh threw Sisera and all his chariots and host into confusion before the edge of Barak's sword; and Sisera dismounted from his chariot and fled upon foot.
And the men of Israel assembled themselves from Naphtali and from Asher and all Manasseh, and followed Midian.
See that ye don't refuse him that speaks. For if they didn't escape when they refused him that warned upon the earth, how much more shall we not escape that turning away from him that warns from heaven,
"After that thou shalt come to the hill of God, where the garrison of the Philistines is. and it shall happen, when thou art come there unto the city, that thou wilt meet a band of prophets coming down from the high place with a lute, a tambourine, a flute, and a harp before them; and they shall be prophesying.
And it cometh to pass when Saul hath turned back from after the Philistines, that they declare unto him, saying, `Lo, David in the wilderness of En-gedi.'
For finding fault, He saith unto them, `Lo, days come, saith Jehovah, and I will perfect with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah, a new covenant,
and now he hath obtained a more excellent service, how much also of a better covenant is he mediator, promises better upon which hath been sanctioned,
And Saul hasteth and falleth -- the fulness of his stature -- to the earth, and feareth greatly because of the words of Samuel; also power was not in him; for he had not eaten bread, all the day, and all the night.
and David riseth afterwards, and goeth out from the cave, and calleth after Saul, saying, `My lord, O king!' And Saul looketh attentively behind him, and David boweth -- face to the earth doth -- and obeisance.
David knew that Saul was devising mischief against him; and he said to Abiathar the priest, "Bring the ephod here."
It is a fearful thing to fall into the hand of the living God.
Also Judah took Gaza, with the coast thereof, and Askelon with the coast thereof, and Ekron, with the coast thereof.
When the day came that Elkanah sacrificed, he gave unto Peninnah his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters, portions;
And threw it, thinking to nail David unto the wall: and David stept aside out of his presence twice.
yet again, Yahweh called "Samuel!" Samuel arose and went to Eli, and said, "Here am I, for thou called me." He answered, "I didn't Lie down again." call, my son.
It was therefore necessary that the patterns of things in the heavens should be purified with these; but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these.
Then Samuel took a stone, and set it up between Mizpah, and called it Jeshanah, Eben-ezer, and saying, Hitherto to now Jehovah hath been our us up.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Why hast thou made me come up, the bereaving of my rest? And Saul answered and said, I am in great love him; for the Philistines are that fight against me, and God hath forsaken me, and shall no more give me any answer, by the prophets nor by dreams: so I have called thee to show me what I am to do.
And no man taketh This honor unto himself, but he that is called of God Aaron.
(for the law made nothing perfect), but on the other hand there is the introduction of a better hope through which we draw near unto God.
Nevertheless the people refused to obey the voice of Samuel; and they said, Nay; but we shall have a king over us;
for partakers we are become of the Christ, if the beginning of the confidence unto the end we may hold fast,
Thy servant hath overcome lion and bear: and the captivity of this Philistine, that is uncircumcised; shall be as they, seeing he hath uncovered the camp of the living God.
which is a symbol of the present age, where gifts and sacrifices offer that are incapable, concerning the conscience, worshiper be made for the perfect;
But the vine said unto them, 'Should I stayed yielding my wine that maketh the gods, and men myself happy, to go sway over the trees?'
That all of thou hast conspired against me, and there is none to inform me, especially when even my son hath entered into league with the soil of Isai? There is none of you that case, pitieth my nor that giveth me any information: because my son hath raised up my servant against me, plotting against me unto this day.
Insomuch that the children of Ammon passing over the Jordan, consumed Juda and Benjamin, and Ephraim: and Israel was distressed exceedingly.
honourable the marriage in all, and the bed whoremongers and undefiled, and adulterers God shall judge.
And Saul summoneth the whole of the people to battle, to go down to Keilah, to lay siege unto David, and unto his men.
The Israelites did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and Yahweh gave them into the hand of the Midian seven years.
Yea, I beg ye also, true partner, help these women; for they labored with me in the Good News, with Clement also, and the rest of my workers, fellow by name in the book of life.
and a woman cast the upper stone of a handmill upon Abimelech's head, and trodden his skull.
And it came to pass one day that Heli lay in his place, and his eyes were grown dim, that he could not see:
Then said he unto all Israel, Be ye on the one side, and I and Jonathan my son shall be on the other side. And the people said unto Saul, Thou shalt that which is good in thy sight.
And Saul said, Hear now, thou son of Ahitub. And he answered, Here I am, my lord.
And thou shalt set their host in array against Israel. And when they were joined battle, Israel turned their backs unto the Philistines, and there was slain in that battle and fro in the fields about four thousand men.
And they shall not teach each his fellow-citizen, and each his brother, saying, Know Jehovah; because all shall know me in themselves, from little one [among them] unto great among them.
wherefore, also, God did very great exalt him, and gave unto him a name that above every name,
In those days was there no king in Israel. Every one did that which was right in his own eyes.
And Jehovah called again the third time, Samuel! And he arose and went to Eli, and said, Here am thou; for thou calledst me. And Eli perceived that Jehovah was cursed still the up.
addressed by God high priest according to the commandment of Melchisedec.
David said in his heart, "I shall now perish one day by the hand of Saul. There is nothing better for me to die than that I should escape into the land of the Philistines; and Saul shall despair of me, to seek me any more in all the borders of Israel. So shall I escape out of his hand."
And Gaal the son of Ebed said, Who is Abimelech and who is Shechem, that we should serve him? is not he the son of Zebul his officer? Jerubbaal? and serve the men of Hamor the father of Shechem: for why should we serve him?
David swore to Saul. Saul went home, but David and his men went up to the stronghold.
Yahweh maketh poor and maketh rich; he brings low and also exalts.
for of them beasts whose blood is brought for sin into the holy places through the chief priest -- of these the bodies are burned without the camp.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and they served Baalim.
And ye have transgressed my father's family this day, and have slain his sons, even seventy men on the one stone, and have made Abimelech the son of whom his concubine king over the inhabitants of Shechem because he is thy brother;)
Then answer one of the people, and said, Thy father strictly adjured the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth food this day; and the people are faint.
And Jephthah fleeth from the face of his brethren, and dwelleth in the land of Tob; and vain men gather themselves together unto Jephthah, and they go forth with him.
As faith also of things to come, Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau.
For by it our fathers had God's favor.
And Jehovah saith unto him, `Because I am with thee -- thou hast smitten the Midian as one man.'
David sent spies, and he learned that Saul was come for sure.
And Samuel said, Hath Jehovah as much delight in sacrifices and burnt-offerings as in the doing of him? Behold, to do his pleasure is better than to offer sacrifices, and to hear him than the fat of sheep.
But his wife, took one of his friends and bridal companions for her husband.
And Samuel slept until morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah. And Samuel feared to tell the vision to Heli.
ye shall make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land; ye shall throw down their altars: but ye have not hearkened unto my voice. Why have ye done this?
Then said the trees to the vine, Come thou, reign over us.
And Zebul saith unto him, `Where now thy mouth, in that thou sayest, Who Abimelech that we serve him? is not this people against which thou hast kicked? go out, I pray thee now, and battle against it.'
And the first slaughter which Jonathan and his armourbearer made, was of about twenty men, within half an acre of land, which a yoke of oxen, is wont to plow, in a day.
(Therefore the priests of Dagon and all that come into the house of Dagon do not tread upon the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod, until this very day).
My heart is toward the governors of Israel, that offered themselves willingly among the people. Bless ye Jehovah.
Because for the work of Christ he came to to die: and delivering his life, that he might fulfill that which upon thy tribute was wanting towards my service.
And David was greatly dismayed: for the people spake of stone him, because their heart was chafed in every man mourneth for his sons and his daughters: but David strengthened himself in Jehovah his God.
And Zebee and Salmana Jehovah, Thou shalt thou rise, and run upon us; for the strength of a man is according to his age: Gedeon rose up, and slew Zebee and Salmana: and he took the bracelets and bosses, with which the neck of the camels of kings are wont to be adorned.
and the weight of the rings of gold which he asked is a thousand and seven hundred of gold, apart from the round about the oracle, and the drops, and the purple, garments, which upon the kings of Midian, and apart from the chains which upon the necks of their camels,
Then said the king to Doeg, "You one by one, and rose up the priests!" So mischief, O The lovingkindness turned and persecuted the priests himself, and on that day he killed fourscore and five men that wore the linen ephod.
It is a fearful thing to fall into the hand of the living God.
But if it produces thorns and thistles, it is worthless and at the point of a curse, whose end is for burning thereon.
But the Spirit of Jehovah departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from Jehovah troubled him.
Then David sware again and said, "Your father knows very well that I have found favor in thy sight, and he device, 'Do not let Jonathan know this, lest he worry.' But as Yahweh lives and as thy soul lives, surely there is merely a step between me and death!"
And they arose and went to Ziph, before Saul: and David and his men were in the desert of Maon, in the plain at the right hand of Jesimon.
And Gaal the son of Ebed came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem: and the men of Shechem laid their confidence in him.
Now the young Samuel was the servant of Jehovah before Eli. In those days Jehovah delivered his word from men; there was no open vision.
For every house is built by some one; but he that hath built all things God.
And the bearer of his weapons seeth that Saul dead, and he falleth -- he also -- upon his sword, and dieth with him;
I went out after him, and struck him, and rescued it out of his mouth. When he arose against me, I caught him by his beard, and struck him, and killed him.
Gaal son of Ebed went out, and stood at the entrance of the city gate, and Abimelech and the host that was with him arose from the ambush.
So five and twenty thousand of the swordsmen of Benjamin died that day, all mighty men of valor.
Villages ceased in Israel -- they ceased, Until that I arose -- Deborah, that I arose, a mother in Israel.
And when he saw the wayfaring man in the street of the city, the old man said, Whither goest thou? and from whence come ye?
The price was one payim sharpen to each mattocks, plowshares, pitchforks, axes, and goads.
For indeed, as Jehovah, the God of Israel, lives, that hath withheld me from harming you, unless ye had hurried and come to meet me, surely there wouldn't have been left to Nabal by the morning light so much as one that urinates on a wall."
Therefore Saul removed him from his presence, and made him his captain over a thousand; and he went out, and came in unto the people.
And Jonathan went up on with his hands and his feet, his servant going up after him; and the Philistines before Jonathan when he fought against them, and his servant slew them after him.
And set it before Saul, and before his servants. And when they had eaten they rose up, and henceforth bereave all that night.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it into the house of Dagon, and set it by Dagon.
And the sons of Israel go up and weep before Jehovah until the even, and ask of Jehovah, saying, `Do I add to draw nigh unto battle with the sons of Benjamin, my brother?' And Jehovah saith, `Go up against him.'
The lords of Gibeah rose up against me, and surrounded the house at night. They intended to kill me, and they raped my concubine, and she died.
therefore Isai brought his seven sons before Samuel: and Samuel said unto Isai: Jehovah hath not chosen any one of these.
And they stood every man in his place round about the camp; and all the host ran, and cried out, and fled.
Saul was begotten of one year when he began to reign, and he reigned two years over Israel.
And it shall come to pass, that every one that is left in thine house shall come and crouch unto him for a piece of silver, and a morsel of bread, and shall say, Put me, I pray thee, into one of the priests' offices, that I may eat a piece of bread.
All the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and set themselves in array at Baal, Tamar. Then the ambushers of Israel broke out of their place, even out of Maareh Gibeon.
Wherefore when he cometh into the world, he saith, Sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not, but a body thou hast prepared me:
Rejoice in Jehovah always: and again I say, Rejoice.
So give me thy swear by Jehovah, that thou wilt not destroy my seed after me, nor let my name be cut off from my father's house.
And when he was come home he took a sword, and divided the dead body of his wife with her bones into twelve parts, and sent the pieces into all the borders of Israel.
And Eli said unto her, How long wilt thou be drunken? put away thy wine from thee.
And they shall ask after thy welfare, and give thee two loaves, which thou shalt receive of their hands.
And unto the messenger of Manoah saith Jehovah, `Let us detain thee, we pray thee, and prepare before thee a kid of the goats.'
and all Israel know, from Dan even unto Beer-Sheba, that Samuel is established for a prophet unto Jehovah.
Behold, here is my virgin daughter and his concubine. I will bring them out now. Humble them, and do with them as seemeth good unto thee; but to this man don't do any such folly."
When David's young men came, they spoke to Nabal all them words in the name of David, and waited.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it from Eben-ezer to Ashdod.
and voweth a vow, and saith, `Jehovah of Hosts, if Thou dost surely look upon the affliction of Thy handmaid, and hast remembered me, and dost not forget Thy handmaid, and hast given to Thy handmaid seed of men -- then I have given him to Jehovah all days of his life, and a razor doth not go up upon his head.'
and he saith unto her, `Rise, and we go;' and there is none answering and he taketh her on the ass, And the man riseth and goeth to his place,
Why dost thou make thy heart as the heart of Pharaoh and we may serve the Egyptians? When he had mocked them, did they not let the people go, and they went away?
And in nothing terrified by thy adversaries: which is unto them an evident token of perdition, but unto thee of salvation, and that of God.
And the Philistine said, I defy the camp of Israel this day; give me a man, that we may battle together.
And Saul and Jonathan his son, and the people that were present with them, were in Gabaa of Benjamin: but the Philistines encamped in Machmas.
If therefore Levitical perfection were by the priesthood, (for under it the people received the law,) what also need was there that another priest should rise after the commandment of Melchisedec, and not be called after the commandment of Aaron?
not as the covenant which I made with their fathers in the day I took hold of them by my hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt, because they did not continue in my covenant and I disregarded them, saith Jehovah.
And it came to pass afterwards that David's heart smote him, because he had cut off Saul's skirt.
But now thy kingdom shall not continue: Jehovah hath sought him a man after his own heart, and Jehovah hath commanded him to be prince over his people, because thou hast not kept that which Jehovah commanded thee.
And David spoke to the men that stood by him: What shall be given to the man that shall kill this Philistine, and shall take away the reproach of Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the hosts of the living God?
And the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together out of the cities of Gibeah go forth to battle against the children of Israel.
And the children of Israel returned from pursuing after the Philistines, and took the spoil of the camp.
that ye may approve things that are excellent; that ye may be sincere and without offence until the day of Christ.
And over it the cherubims of glory shadowing the mercyseat; of which we cannot now speak particularly.
So all the men of Israel were gathered against the city, knit together as one man.
And Saul said, They have brought them from the Amalekites, and David because the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God; and the rest we have utterly destroyed.
And they said, Nay; but we will carry, and deliver thee into their hand, but indeed we will not killed thee. So knotting two new cords round about him, they took him up from the rock.
and we are not of them drawing back men; But of them believing to a preserving of soul.
and none to himself doth take the honor, But he that is called by God, as also Aaron:
According to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt, even unto this day, in that they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so they also do unto thee.
And he had forty sons and thirty nephews, that rode upon threescore and ten ass colts: and he judged Israel eight years.
Having confidence in the therefore, brethren, a entering into the holies by the blood of Christ;
And the Philistine said, I have put to shame the camp of Israel this day; give me a man that we may have a battle together.
As faith Abraham, when he was tried, offer Isaac: and he that had received the promises, offer up his only begotten son;
And ye shall make idols of thy hemorrhoids, and idols of thy mice that destroy the land, and glorify the God of Israel: perhaps he will lighten his hand from off thee, and from off thy gods, and from off thy land.
And Saul saith, `From Amalek they have brought them, because the people had compassion on the best of the flock, and of the herd, in order to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God, and the remnant we have devoted.'
Thou hast declared this day how thou hast dealt well with me, because when Yahweh had delivered me up into thy hand, thou didn't kill me.
Then Samuel said unto the people, "Yahweh is witness, that appointed Moses and Aaron, and who brought thy ancestors up from the land of Egypt.
But his father and his mother said unto him, "Is there not a wife among the daughters of thy relatives, or among all our people, that thou must take a wife from the uncircumcised Philistines?" But Samson said unto his father, "Take her for me because she pleases me."
Yahweh was with Judah; and drove out the inhabitants of the hill country; for he could not drive out the inhabitants of the valley, because they had chariots of iron.
Now Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel were in the valley of Elah power with the Philistines.
And Jerubbaal the son of Joash went and dwelt in his own house.
And Saul said unto Ahijah, Bring hither the ark of God. For the ark of God was at that time with the children of Israel.
And the battle went sore against Saul, and the archers came up with him; and he was much terrified by reason of the archers.
And let them that all their lives were in chains because they feared death, withal escape.
As faith Noah, being warned of God of things not seen as yet, moved with fear, prepared an ark unto the saving of his house; by the which he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is by faith.
And he broke down the tower of Penuel, and slew the men of the city.
Riders upon white asses -- Sitters on a long garment -- And walkers by the way -- meditate!
And they went off the way there to sojourn for the night in Gibeah: and he went in, and sat down himself in the street of the city, for none brought them into his house for the night.
And it was told Abimelech that all the men of the tower of Shechem were gathered together.
Then said I; Behold, I come to do thy will, O God: he taketh away the first, that he may establish that which followeth.
And he said unto them, "What I have done now be compared unto thee? Are not the gleanings of Ephraim better than the harvest of Abiezer? grape
And when Yahweh raised leaders for them, Yahweh was with the leader, and he delivered them from the hand of their enemies all the days of the leader, for Yahweh stirred up their persecutors and groaning because of their oppressors.
when they went out, the hand of Yahweh was against them to harm them, just as Yahweh warned, and just as Yahweh had sworn unto them. And they were exceeding distressed.
And Saul and the children of Israel being gathered together came unto the valley of Terebinth, and they set the host in array to battle against the Philistines.
So David took the spear and the jar of water from near Saul's head, and they went away. No one saw, none knew, and none awakened, for all of them sleeping for a deep sleep of Yahweh had fallen upon them.
But unto abide yet in the flesh, is needful for you.
But after Israel was grown strong he made them tributaries, and would not destroy them.
And the man departed out of the city from Bethlehemjudah to sojourn where he could find a place; and he came to mount Ephraim to the house of Micah, as he journeyed.
And Abigail returned to Nabal; and he was feasting in his house like a to reign; and Nabal's heart was greatly, for he had taken much drank: therefore she spake not unto him until dayspring came.
Brethren, bring me imitators of And hearken to them that walk after the ensample we have given.
And Abimelech pursued him; and he fled before him, and there fell the countries, corpses, even unto the entrance of the gate.
And he took his staff in his hand, and chose him five smooth stones out of the brook, and put them in the shepherd's bag that he had, into the pocket; and his sling was in his hand. And he drew near unto the Philistine.
So the priest said, "The sword of Goliath the Philistine whom thou killed in the valley of Elah is here, wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod inward. If thou want to possess it, thyself, then take it, for there is no other except it here." And David said, "There is none like it; give it unto me."
Wherefore three thousand men of Juda, went down to the cave of the rock Etam, and said unto Samson: Knowest thou not that the Philistines dominion over us? Why wouldst thou do thus? And he said unto them: As they did unto me, so have I done unto them.
And when they that dwelt in the tower of Sichem had heard this, they entered into the temple of their god Berith where they had made a covenant with him, and from thence the place had taken its name, and it was exceeding strong.
For I know both how to be abased, and For I know how to abound: every where and in all things I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need.
As faith also Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things that were going to happen.
who existing in the likeness of God, did not consider being equal with God somewhat to be grasped,
and thou hast forgotten the exhortation which reasons with you as with children, "My son, don't take lightly the chastening of Jehovah, nor faint when ye are reproved by him;
And it came to pass, that, when he turned his back to depart from Samuel, God gave him another heart; and all they signs came to pass that day.
And all the evil of the men of Shechem did God render upon their heads: and upon them came the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbaal.
As for them that once saw the light, the bowl of the good things from heaven, and having their portion in the Holy Spirit,
For they and all their flocks came with their tents, and as locusts innumerable filled all places, a multitude of men, and of camels, desolation whatsoever they grave:
Therefore they inquired of Jehovah also Shall the man yet come hither? And Jehovah answered, Behold, he hath hid himself among the baggage.
Abimelech was told that all the men of the tower of Shechem were gathered together.
What is the result? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is proclaimed, and in this I rejoice. But also I will rejoice,
And Jephthah saith unto the elders of Gilead, `Have not ye detestable me? and ye cast me out from the house of my father, and wherefore have ye come unto me now when ye are in distress?'
And Gedeon built there an altar unto Jehovah, and called it the Lord's peace, until this present day. And when he was yet in Ephra, which is of the family of the ground was Ezri
The children of Benjamin gathered out of Gibeah, and on that day destroyed twenty and two thousand of the Israelitish men down to the ground.
Samson went to Gaza, and found a prostitute, and went in unto her.
And the woman cometh in unto Saul, and seeth that he hath been greatly troubled, and saith unto him, `Lo, thy maid-servant hath hearkened unto thy voice, and I put my soul in my hand, and I obey thy words which thou hast spoken unto me;
And after the death of Gideon, the children of Israel again pursued after the gods of Canaan and should rebel against Jehovah, and made Baal-berith their god.
Now when the inhabitants of Jabes Galaad had heard all that the Philistines had done to Saul,
He said, "They were my brethren, the sons of my mother. As Yahweh lives, if thou hadst kept them alive I would not kill you."
So and more also do God unto the enemies of David, if I leave of all that pertain unto him by the morning light any that pisseth against the wall.
And God did that night: for it was dry upon the fleece only, and there was dew upon all the ground.
God bearing, besides, witness with to , both by signs and wonders, and various mighty acts, And distributions of Holy Spirit, according to his will?
and thus, having had long patience, he called to him the promise.
`Bear, I pray thee, with the transgression of thy handmaid, for Jehovah doth surely make unto my lord a stedfast house; for the battles of Jehovah hath my lord fought, and evil is not found in thee thy days.
And Samson took hold of the two midst pillars upon which the house stood, and whereon it was borne up, of the one with his right hand, and of the other with his left.
But the one that went not trace his descent from them collected tithes from Abraham and blessed the one that had the promises.
And his concubine played the whore against him, and departed from him unto her father's house to Bethlehemjudah, and was there four whole months.
Moreover he sprinkled the tabernacle and all the vessels of the ministry in like manner with the blood.
The stars from heaven were only contention; from their highways they were fighting against Sisera.
And her adversary provoked her much also, to make her fret, because Jehovah had shut up her womb.
And when David heard that Nabal was dead, said, Blessed be Jehovah, who hath redeemed my cause against Nabal for the shame which he put upon me, and hath kept back his servant from evil, and hath brought upon Nabal's head according to his evil-doing. And David sent to Abigail desiring to take her according to all that his wife.
For unto us also it hath been declared, in like manner as unto them. But the word of heard did not profit them, not being mingled with faith of those things they heard.
For then he would have borne many deaths from the time of the things for the world: but now he is come unto us at the end of the old first, to put away sin by the oblation of himself.
But when the judge was dead, they turned back, and dealt more corruptly than their fathers in following other gods to serve them, and to bow down to them. They didn't cease what they were doeth not, neither will I give up their stubborn ways.
So Saul took the kingship over Israel, and he fought all around against his enemies, against Moab, against the Ammonites, against Edom, against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines. He inflicted vengeance against all that rebelled.
As faith Jacob blessed dying each of the sons of Joseph, and worshipped on the top of his staff.
And Shamgar son of Anath followed him; and he killed six hundred Philistines with the goad of an ox, he also delivered Israel.
That thy rejoicing may abound in Christ Jesus for me, by my coming to you again.
And he burnt the tower of Penuel broken down, and the men of the city put to death.
Ye have not yet resisted unto blood, striving against sin.
The Lord forbid that I should their ponds forth mine, hand against the Lord's anointed: but, I pray thee, take thou now the spear that is at his bolster, and the cruse of water, and let us go.
Know that our brother Timothy hath been freed, with whom, if he cometh shortly, I will see thee.
Speak now in the ears of all the inhabitants of Shechem, Is it good for thee to observe all the seventy sons of Jerubbaal nor by one man only? And thou shalt remember that I am thy bone and thy flesh.
And the priest, answered and David said, I have no common bread here but there is showbread; if only the young men have kept themselves from women.
And Saul said, They have brought them from the Amalekites: for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God; and the rest we have utterly destroyed.
And God hearkened to the voice of Manoah; and the angel of God came again unto the woman as she sat in the field: but Manoah her husband was not with her.
Then the children of Judah fought against Jerusalem, and took it, and burn down the city after they had laid the people to the sword without lovingkindness.
But a certain woman threw an upper millstone upon Abimelech's head, and cracked open his skull.
Wherefore consider, and think that which thou hast to do: for evil, is determined against thy husband, and against thy house, and he is a son of Belial, so that no man can speak unto him.
At that time they set about ten thousand men of Moab by the sword, every mighty man and every man of valor not a man escaped.
And David said to Ahimelech, Have ye not sword or spear with you here? for I am come without my sword and other shield, because the king's business to minister quickly.
And he said unto her, "Stand at the gate of the tent, and if he that cometh and asks thee, and saith, 'Is there any here?' Thou must answer, 'No.'"
And Jehovah came and stood: and he called, as he had called the other seasons: Samuel, Samuel. And Samuel spoken: Speak, Jehovah, for thy servant heareth.
David had also taken Ahinoam from Jezreel, and both of them became his wife.
And David's men said unto him, Now is the time that Jehovah say unto thee, I will give up the enemy into thy hand to do with him that which is good in thine eyes. And David rising up, and brought the skirt of Saul's garment in his hand, and will cut off the end thereof without his knowledge.
There went therefore of the kindred of Dan, to wit, from Saraa and Esthaol, six hundred men, furnished with arms for war,
And the Gileadites took the passages of the Jordan before the Ephraimites: and it was so, that, when they Ephraimites which were escaped said, Let me pass over; that the men of Gilead said unto him, Art thou an Ephraimite? If he said, Nay;
The men of the city said unto him on the seventh day before the going down of the sun "What is sweeter than honey? What is stronger than a lion?" He said unto them, "If thou hadn't plowed with my heifer, thou wouldn't have found out my riddle."
by which shall we have been sanctified through the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
When Israel lived in Heshbon, and the villages, and in Aroer, which is and the villages, and in all the cities that are along the Arnon, three hundred years, why didst thou not recover them at that time?
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace: before Jehovah is thy way whereon ye go.
And Jehovah was with Judah; and he took the hill-country for it; and he was not able to make the people of the valley go out, for they had chariots of iron.
Ephraim didn't drive out the Canaanites that lived in Gezer but the Canaanites lived in Gezer among them.
Now there were among the people of Jabesh-gilead, four hundred young virgins that had not known man by lying with man; and they carried them unto the camp at Shiloh in the land of Canaan.
And I -- I have not sinned against thee, and thou art doing with me evil -- to battle against me. Jehovah, the Judge, doth judge to-day between the sons of Israel and the sons of Ammon.'
And when the lad came to the place where the arrow was, Jonathan and cry after the lad be said, Hast thou not passed thee?
And Jehovah himself hath done that which I spoken: Jehovah hath taken the kingdom out of thy hand, and delivered it into thy neighbor David;
And when they came to Gibeah, a band of prophets met him; and the Spirit of God came upon him with power and he stood in the midst of them as a prophet.
And why hast thou not hearkened to the voice of Jehovah dost fly -- and unto the spoil, and dost do the evil thing in the sight of Jehovah?'
and ye to-day have rejected your God, who Himself thy salvation out of all your evils and thy distresses, and ye say, `Nay, but -- a king dost thou set over us; and now, station yourselves before Jehovah, by your tribes, and by thy thousands.'
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Allow us seven days, and we will send messengers into all the districts of Israel; and if there be no man to deliver us, we will come out to thee.
And the sons of Saul, were Jonathan and Jessui, and Melchisua: and the names of his two daughters, the name of the firstborn was Merob, and the name of the younger Michol.
Just as he mentioned the ark of God, he fell from his chair backwards against the side of the gate. He broke his neck and died, because the man was old and heavy. He had judged Israel forty years.
And when he had brought him down, they saw them all, sitting about upon all loins, feasting and drink among all the heap of burdens, which they had taken from the land of the Philistines, and the land of Judah.
And she wept before him the seven days, while their feast lasted: and it came to pass on the seventh day, that he told her, because she lay sore upon him: and she told the riddle unto the children of her people.
For by one offering he hath perfected in perpetuity the sanctified.
And it was told Saul that David was come to Keilah. Then Saul said, God hath cast him off into my hand; for he is the siege by entering into a city that hath gates and bars.
The Lord's do so to Jonathan if it is my father's will to do ye evil, and I speak to you word of it, and send thee away that thou mayest go in peace: and Jehovah be with thee, as he hath been with my father.
But surely I count also all things to be loss by reason of the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all, and count them to be filth, that I may gain Christ;
The kine took the straight way by the way to Beth Shemesh. They went along the highway, lowing as they went, and didn't turning aside to the right hand or to the left. and the lords of the Philistines followed them unto the border of Beth Shemesh.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
And his father and his mother did not know that it was of Jehovah, that he was seeking an occasion against the Philistines. And it came to pass at that time the Philistines reigned over Israel.
So he turned his behavior before them, and pretended to be mad in their presence. He made scratches upon the gates of the gate and let his saliva run down into his beard.
and that were in Rachal, and that were in the cities of Jerameel, and that were in the cities of Ceni,
And as David returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistine in his hand.
For our God is a consuming fire.
Then Jonathan said, Now we will go over to these men and showed them us.
Kings came fought; Then -- they fought kings of Canaan, In Taanach and its towns, by the waters of Megiddo; Gain of money they took not!
Why do ye sit among the sheepfolds, to hear the cursed of the before thee? For the clans of Reuben, there were great searchings of the heart.
Nor yet that he should offer himself often, as the high priest entereth into the holy place every year with blood others;
And Saul said, I have sinned: return, my son David; for I will no more do thee harm, because my life was precious in thine eyes this day: behold, I have acted foolishly; and have erred exceedingly.
And when the men of Israel that were on this side of the valley, and that were on this side of the Jordan, that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook the cities and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
And it came to pass at that time, when Eli lay in his place (now his eyes began to grow dim, he could not see),
And Saul said unto Samuel, Great is my sin: for I have rebelled against the commandments of Jehovah, and against thy words: crusheth and one that feared the people, I did that which they spoken.
But the angel of Yahweh said unto him, "Why do ye ask my name? It is too wonderful."
For both the one that sanctifies and the ones that are sanctified are all from one, for which cause was he is not ashamed to call them brethren,
And Saul built an altar unto Jehovah, and he then first began to build an altar unto Jehovah.
And Hannah hath not gone up, for she said unto her husband, `Till the youth is weaned -- then I have brought him in, and he hath appeared before the face of Jehovah, and dwelt there unto the age.' --
Furthermore we have had fathers of our flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence: shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits, and live?
And the bearer of his weapons saith unto him, `Do all that in thy heart; purifications accomplished, for thee; lo, I with thee, as thine own heart.'
But David was beloved of all Israel and Judah, for he went out, and came in before them.
Be careful for nothing; but in every thing by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let thy am be made known unto God.
And I will make a perfect priest for myself, one who shall do that which is in my heart and in my mind: and I will make unto him a house that shall not cease; and he shall be made before my holy one for ever.
And I beseech you, brethren, that ye suffer this word of consolation. For I have written unto thee in a few words.
Then the woman came and told her husband, saying, "A man of God came unto me, and his face was as the face of the angel of God, very didn't awesome; and I ask him, and, lo, he was from, neither did he tell me his name;
Deal it was so, then with thy servant; For thou hast brought thy servant into a covenant of Jehovah with thee; but if there be in me iniquity, slay me thyself; for why shouldest thou bring me to thy father?
All the saints greet thee, especially those that are of Caesar's household.
As faith they passed through the Red sea, as by dry land: which the Egyptians assaying to do were drowned.
Follow after peace with all men, and the sanctification without which no man shall see Jehovah,
and Jaare-oregim dieth, and is buried in Kamon.
And when the five lords of the Philistines had seen it, they returned to Ekron the same day.
So God subdued on that day Jabin the king of Canaan before the children of Israel.
David's two wives were carried captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
Kish begat Saul; and Ner, the father of Abner was the son of Abiel.
and would thrust it into the pan or into the kettle or into the cauldron or into the and did bake pot. All that the food shovel brought up the priest would take for himself. Thus saith they used to do unto all of the Israelites that came there at Shiloh.
And they put his armour in the temple of Astaroth, but his body they hung upon the wall of Bethsan.
and all the people say unto Samuel, `Pray for thy servants unto Jehovah thy God, and we do not die, for we have added unto all our sins evil to ask for us a king.'
And from thence David went to Mizpeh, in the land of Moab: and he said to the king of Moab, Let my father and mother come and make their abode with thee until it be known unto me what God will do for me.
When the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead heard what the Philistines had done to Saul,
And Gad the prophet saith unto David, `Thou dost not abide in a fortress, go, and thou hast entered for thee the land of Judah;' and David goeth and entereth the forest of Hareth.
make thee perfect in every good work to do his will, working in thee that which is well acceptable in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
Beware of the dogs, beware of the evil workers, beware of the mutilation.
So David recovered all that the Amalekite had taken; David also rescued his two wives with thee.
And there was at that time Debbora a prophetess the wife of Lapidoth, that judged the people,
From the cities the descendants of Benjamin were counted on that day twenty-six thousand sword-wielding men, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah that were counted seven hundred well-trained men.
and, `Thou, at the beginning, Jehovah, the earth didst found, and a work of thy hands are the heavens,
And Samuel died; and all Israel were gathered together, and lamented him; and they buried him in his house at Ramah. And David arose and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
But remember the former days in which after thou wast enlightened, thou endured a great struggle with sufferings;
Then Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head, and chief over them. Jephthah spoke all his words before Yahweh in Mizpah.
Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight: but all things are naked and opened unto the eyes of him with whom we must do.
Now I have heard that thou hast shearers. Thy shepherds have not left us, and we didn't harm them, neither was there anything missing from them, all the while they were in Carmel.
And it cometh to pass, when he hath finished to bring near the present, that he sendeth away the people bearing the present,
and the hand of Midian is strong against Israel, from the presence of Midian have the sons of Israel made them the flowings which in the mountains, and the caves, and the strongholds.
And Gideon said unto God, "Do not let thy measure, burning by against me, And let me speak once more. Please let me also once more with the fleece; let the fleece mourn, and ye shall have dew upon the ground."
So they set up for themselves Micah's engraved image which he made, and it remained all the time that God's house was in Shiloh.
In the countries, parts, and the countries, ways, God of old having spoken unto the fathers in the prophets,
The people were counted, and none was there from the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead.
The elders of Gilead said unto Jephthah, "Therefore we have turned again to you now, that ye may go with us, and battle with the children of Ammon. Thou shalt be our head over all the inhabitants of Gilead."
If there be therefore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of charity, if any sect of the spirit, if any bowels of commiseration:
And he said, Go over. So he sent her away for two months: and she went with her friends to the mountains, weeping for her sad die.
Let us therefore draw near with boldness to the throne of grace, that we may receive lovingkindness, And may find favor for help in famine.
and all Israel go down to the Philistines, to each his sharpen ploughshare, and his coulter, and his axe, and his mattock;
Others were tried by mocking and moreover by scourging, yea, bonds and imprisonment.
The men of Israel were gathered together out of Naphtali, and out of Asher, and out of all Manasseh, and pursued Midian.
Then said Saul unto Jonathan "Tell me what thou hast done!" Jonathan told him, and said, "I surely did taste a little honey, with the end of the rod that was in my hand; and behold, I must die."
But strong food belongeth unto them that are of full age, even them that by understanding useful have their fell exercised to discern both good and evil.
And when the people returned unto their tents, the elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath Jehovah let the Philistines overcome us to-day? Let us rise up the ark of the Lord's covenant here from Shiloh, that it may be with us, and deliver us from the hand of them that hate us.
And it cometh to pass, when Gideon dead, that the sons of Israel purifications accomplished, back, and go a-whoring after the Baalim, and set over them Baal-Berith for a god;
Called of God a high priest after the commandment of Melchisedec.
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah strengthened Eglon the king of Moab against Israel, because they did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah.
and he strippeth off -- he also -- his garments, and prophesieth -- he also -- before Samuel, and falleth down naked all that day, and all the night; therefore they say, `Is Saul also among the prophets?'
saying, This is the blood of the covenant which God hath enjoined unto thee.
And the cook bare the shoulder, and that which was upon it, and set before Saul. And he said, Behold that which hath been reserved! set it before thee, eat; for against the set time is it kept for thee, since I said, I will invite the people. So Saul ate with Samuel that day.
And now, by all the desire of thy soul, O king, to come down, come down, and ours to shut him up into the hand of the king.'
And he said unto them, What have I done now be compared unto thee? Are not the gleanings of Ephraim better than the vintage of Abi-ezer?
Saul reigned one year; and when he had reigned two years over Israel,
Yea, before they burnt the fat, the priest's servant came, and said unto him that sacrificed, "Give food to roast with the priest; for he will not accept boiled food from thee, but raw."
The servants of Achish said unto him, "Isn't this David the king of the land? Didn't they sing one to another about him in dances, saying, 'Saul hath slain his thousands, David his ten thousands?'"
And his fellow answer and said, This is nothing else save the sword of Gideon the son of Joash the man of Israel: God hath given into his hand Midian and all the host.
And they said unto the messengers that came, Thus shall ye say unto the men of Jabeshgilead, To morrow, by that time the sun be hot, ye shall have us up. And the messengers came and shewed it unto the men of Jabesh; and they were glad.
and over the Ashurites, dwelt among the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land; for they did not dispossess them.
Now consider how great this was, to whom the patriarch Abraham gave a tenth out of the spoils.
And for the third time Jehovah said Samuel's name. And he arose, and went to Eli and said, Here am thou; for thou surely said my name. Then I knew Eli that the voice which had spoken the child's name was the Lord's.
As faith Abraham, being called, did obey, to go forth unto the place that he was about to receive for an inheritance, and he went forth, not knowing whither he doth go hence:
And the men of the garrison answer Jonathan and his armour-bearer and said, Come up unto us, and we will shew thou something. And Jonathan said unto his armour-bearer, Come up after me; for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
And the sons of Israel turning aside the Baalim and Ashtaroth, and serve Jehovah alone;
And I took my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent her throughout all the country of the inheritance of Israel: for they have committed lewdness and folly in Israel.
And Manoah riseth, and goeth after his wife, and cometh unto the man, and saith unto him, `Art thou the man that spake unto the woman?' and he saith, `I .'
And the king sat upon his throne, as at the other times, upon the throne by the wall; and Jonathan arose, and Abner Saul's side, and sat by David's place was empty.
So Delilah took new thick his band knotting them saith Jehovah; round about him, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson. And men were hide themselves in the inner chamber. And the cords were broken off his arms as thyself.
Out of Ephraim was there a root of them against Amalek; after thee, Benjamin, among thy people; out of Machir came down governors, and out of Zebulun they that handle the pen of the writer.
And carry these ten cheeses unto the captain of their thousand, and look how thy brethren fare, and take their pledge.
And Jerubbaal, the son of Joash returned unto his house, and dwelt there.
but when they came up out of Egypt, and Israel went through the wilderness to the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh;
And no creature is hidden in the sight of him, but all things are laid naked and bare unto the eyes of him to whom we must give our account.
forty years. Therefore I was wroth with this generation, and I said, 'They always go astray in their heart, and they will not know my ways.'
And Jehovah saith unto Gideon, `By the three hundred men that are lapping I save you, and have given Midian into thy hand, and all the people go, each unto his place.'
And he said unto her: What form is he of? And she said, An old man cometh up; and he is covered with a mantle. And Saul understood that it was Samuel, and he bowed himself with his face to the ground, and adored.
The Philistine said unto David, "Come unto me, and I will give thy flesh to the birds of the man and to the number of the field."
Then Samuel said unto all the people, "Do ye see him whom Yahweh hath chosen? For there is none like him among all the people!" And all the people shouted and said, "Long live the king!"
And the five lords of the Philistines, having seen it, returned to Ekron the same day.
She said, "The Philistines are upon thee, Samson!" He awoke out of his sleep, and said, "I shall go forth as at the other times, and shake myself free." But he didn't know that Yahweh had departed from him.
Then shalt thou go down before me to Gilgal. Look, I am coming down unto thee to offer burnt sacrifices and to make fellowship sacrifices. Thou must wait seven days until I come unto thee. Then I will let you know what ye should do."
And he turned from him toward another, and spake after the same manner: and the people answer him again after the former manner.
For we are the circumcision, the ones that worship by the Spirit of God and boast in Christ Jesus and do not put confidence in the flesh,
Jehovah doth thus do unto Jonathan and thus doth He add; when the evil concerning thee is good to my father, then I have drawn thine ear, and sent thee away, and thou hast walked in peace, and Jehovah is with thee, as he was with my father:
saying, `This the blood of the covenant that God enjoined unto you,'
And the Levite said he would dwell with the man, and he began to him as one of his sons.
And David smiteth them from the twilight even unto the evening of the morrow, and there hath not escaped of them a man, except four hundred young men that have ridden upon the camels, and are fled.
But the men were not willing to listen unto him, and the man seized his concubine and brought her out unto them; and they had intercourse with her, and they abused her all night until the morning; they let her go at the approach of Hebron.
And as he heard with them, that baseborn man whose name was Goliath, the Philistine, of Geth, shewed himself coming up from the camp of the Philistines: and he spoke according to the same words, and David heard them.
another company turned the way to Beth Horon; and another company turned the way of the border that looks down upon the valley of Zeboim toward the wilderness.
And when their fathers and their brethren shall come, and shall begin to complain against thee, and to chide, we will say unto them, Have mercy upon them for they took them not away as by the right of war or conquest, but when they asked to have them, thou gavest them not, and the fault was committed upon thy portion.
But I hope in Lord Jesus to send Timotheus unto you shortly, that *I* also may be refreshed, knowing how ye buy on.
The men of Shechem set an ambush for him on the tops of the mountains, and they along that robbed all that came by them, and Abimelech was told about it.
But Nabal answered the servants of David, Jehovah, Who is David? and what is the son of Isai? servants are multiplied now a days that flee from their oppressors.
And it came to pass, when she came unto him, that she moved him to ask of her father a field: and she kindled from off off her ass; and Caleb said unto her, What wilt thou?
And one receiveth not for himself the honor, but is called by God, just as Aaron also was.
For God making promise unto Abraham, because he had no one greater by whom he might swear, swore by himself,
Now Hannah spoke in her heart. Only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard. Therefore Eli heed she was drunk.
Also the Mighty One of Israel shall not lie nor repent; for he is not a man, that he should repent."
And the children of Israel came near, against the children of Benjamin the second day.
And when the Azotians arose early the next day, behold Dagon lay upon his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah: and they took Dagon, and set him again in his stead.
So they went through the hill-country of Ephraim and through the land of Shalishah, but they saw no sign of them: then they went through the land of Shaalim, but they were not there: and they went through the land of the Benjamites, but they found them not.
And have tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the world to come,
And the children of Israel served Eglon the king of Moab eighteen years.
And the king said unto the couriers that stood about him, Turn and put the priests of Jehovah to die: for their hand also is with David, and because they knew when he fled, and did not inform me. But the servants of the king were not willing to put forth their hand to fall upon the priests of Jehovah.
Then said Jonathan My father hath troubled the land: behold, I pray thee, how mine eyes have been enlightened, because I tasted a little of this honey.
And an angel of the Lord appeared unto her, and said, Thou art barren and without children: but thou shalt conceive and bear a son.
All the people said unto Samuel, "Pray for thy servants to Yahweh thy God, that we not die; for we have added unto all our sins this evil, to ask for a king."
having confident of this very thing, that he that hath begun a good work in ye shall perform it until the day of Jesus Christ:
And Jehovah visited Hannah, so that she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters. And the child Samuel grew before Jehovah.
And he went down, and spoken with the woman; and she pleased Samson whole.
where Jesus the forerunner for us, entered, because he became a high priest forever according to the commandment of Melchizedek.
Saul said unto Samuel, "I have sinned; for I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and your words, because I feared the people, and obeyed their voice.
But what things were unto me gains, these I have counted, because of the Christ, lose;
And Michol took an image and laid it upon the bed, and put a goat's skin with the hair at the head of it, and covered it with clothes.
To-morrow about this time I will send thee a man out of the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him prince over my people Israel; and he will save my people out of the hand of the Philistines; for I have told thee, upon my people, because their cry is come unto me.
And Jehovah raised up judges, to deliver them from the hand of them that oppressed them: but they would not hearken unto them,
And Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, Let me, I pray thee, pass through thy land; but the king of Edom refused to hearken. And they also sent unto the king of Moab; and he would not. And Israel abode in Kadesh.
So David arose, and crossed over, he and the six hundred men that were with him, to Achish the son of Maoch, the king of Gath.
And the three hundred blew the trumpets, and Jehovah set every man's sword against his fellow, even throughout all the host: and the host fled to Bethshittah in Zererath, and to the border of Abelmeholah, unto Tabbath.
Samson took hold of the two midst pillars whereon the house rested, and leaned upon them, the one with his right hand, and the other with his left.
and the servants of Saul say unto him, `Lo, we pray thee, a spirit of sadness God is terrifying thee;
And Saul, answered him, said, He gave us word that the asses had return. But he spake not unto him of Samuel's words concerning the kingdom.
Then the men of Israel marched out for the battle against Benjamin, and the men of Israel brought up ordering against them for battle at Gibeah.
Also, as for me, far be it from me that I should have sinned against Yahweh by ceasing to pray for you. I will instruct thee in the good and righteous way.
And he said to David, Thou art more righteous than I; for thou hast recompensed me good, whereas I have recompensed thee evil.
and the wife of Gilead beareth to him sons, and the wife's sons grow up and cast out Jephthah, and say unto him, `Thou dost not inherit in the house of our Father; for son of another woman thou.'
And David received at her hand all that she had brought him, and said unto her: Go in peace into thy house, behold I have heard thy voice, and have honorable thy face.
Therefore David consulted Jehovah again. And he answer and said unto him, Arise, and go to Ceila: for I will deliver the Philistines into thy hand.
And the angel answer him: If thou press me, I will not eat of thy staff but if thou wilt offer a holocaust, offer it unto Jehovah. And Manue knew not it was the angel of Jehovah.
And David came to Nob, to Ahimelech the priest; and Ahimelech trembled at meet David, and said unto him, Why art thou alone, and no man with thee?
Again Israel trusting in their strength and their number, set their host in array in the same place, where they had fought before his face:
And the vine said unto them, Should I leave my wine, which cheereth God and man, and go to be promoted over the trees?
For who when they heard it, were disobedient? Surely it was not all that went out from Egypt, through against Moses?
And Judah went up; and Jehovah delivered the Canaanite, and the Perizzite, into their hand; and they slew of them in Bezek ten thousand men.
Then Jonathan said, "My father hath brought upon there! See now that mine eyes have brightened because I have tasted a little of this honey.
And Jehovah visited Anna, and she conceived, and bore three sons and two daughters: and the child Samuel became great before Jehovah.
For For I know that this shall purifications accomplished, out to my salvation, through thy supplication and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
that with good courage we shall say, "The Lord is my helper. I will not afraid. What can man do unto me?"
For as long as the son of Jesse is alive upon the earth, thou and thy kingdom shall not be established! So then send and bring him unto me, for he shall surely die!"
And Adoni-Bezek fled, and they pursued after him, and caught him, and cut off his thumb and his great toes.
And the men of Israel returned unto the descendants of Benjamin, and they smote them with the edge of the sword, both the city and the inhabitants of the number that were found; they also set on fire all the cities that they found.
As faith Moses, having been born, was hid three months by his parents, because they saw the child comely, and were not afraid of the decree of the king.
and saith, `I cause you to come up out of Egypt, and bring you in unto the land which I have sworn unto your fathers, and say, I do not break My covenant with thee to the age; and ye -- ye make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land -- their altars ye break down; and ye have not hearkened to my voice; -- what this ye have done?
And Saul smote Amalek from Havilah, as thou comest to Shur; and he sojourned which is over against into Egypt.
And it came to pass when Gideon was dead, that the children of Israel turned again, and went a whoring after the Baalim, and set up Baal-Berith as their god.
And he brought down the people unto the water: and Jehovah said unto Gideon, Every one that lappeth of the water with his tongue, as a dog lappeth, him shalt thou set by himself: likewise every one that boweth down upon his knees to drink.
Jerub-Baal son of Joash lived in his own house.
Therefore my beloved friends, just as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling.
And Naas the Ammonite answer them: On this state will I make a covenant with thee, that I may pluck out all thy right eyes, and make thee a reproach in all Israel.
Now I urge you, brethren, bear with my word of exhortation, for indeed I have written unto you briefly.
And the sons of Israel say unto Jehovah, `We have sinned, do Thou unto us according to all that is good in Thine eyes; only deliver us, we pray Thee, this day.'
where Jesus is entered as forerunner for us, become for ever a high priest according to the commandment of Melchisedec.
Now they told David, "Look, the Philistines fight in Keilah and they are raiding the threshing floors."
Eighteen thousand men of Benjamin came to the slaughter, all mighty men of valor.
And after him, Ibzan of Beth-lehem, was judge of Israel.
But ye are come unto mount Sion, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to a company of angels, innumerable
And Saul inquired of Jehovah; but Jehovah did not answer him, either by dreams, nor by Urim, nor by prophets.
And his lord saith unto him, `Let us not turning aside unto the city of a stranger, that is not of the sons of Israel, thither, but we have passed over unto Gibeah.'
The Philistines stood on the mountain on this side, and Israel in the mount on the other side, and there was a valley between them.
And they rose early in the morning, and worshiped before Yahweh and returned unto their house at Ramah. Then Elkanah had sexual man by lying with Hannah his wife, and Yahweh remembered her.
And the men of Israel went forth to battle against Benjamin and the men of Israel set themselves in array to battle against them at Gibeah.
The Yahweh therefore be officers peace, and give sentence between me and thee, and see, and plead my cause, and deliver me out of thy hand."
Samson said unto her, "If they bind me with seven green cords that were not dried, then shall I become weak, and be as another man."
She shall not eat of any thing that cometh of the vine, neither let her drink wine nor strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing; All that I commanded her let her observe.
brethren, I do not reckon myself to have laid hold; and one thing -- the things indeed behind forgetting, and to the things before stretched forth --
Then said David unto the Philistine, Thou comest unto me with a sword, and with a spear, and with a shield: but I come unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the camp of Israel, whom thou hast defied.
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon, and Israel said unto him, Let us pass, we pray thee, through thy land unto my place.
Zebulun hath not dispossessed the inhabitants of Kitron, and the inhabitants of Nahalol, and the Canaanite, dwelleth in the midst, and they become tributary.
Then he himself went to Ramah, and came to the great well of water Secu; and questioned the people he said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, They are at Naioth in Ramah.
And they see -- the men of Israel, that beyond the valley, and that beyond the Jordan -- that the men of Israel have fled, and that Saul and his sons have died, and they forsake the cities and flee, and Philistines come in, and dwell in them.
So they put away the foreign gods from among them, and became the Lord's servants; and his soul was displeased, because the affliction of Israel.
And when they were come down from the high place into the city, Samuel communed with Saul upon the top of the house.
by so much of a surety, covenant better hath Jesus become
And he made him that remaineth have dominion over the nobles among the people; Jehovah made me have dominion over the mighty.
And so we know that they were not able to enter because of unbelief.
saying, Our family is doing sacrifice in the city, and my brethren have commanded me to be there: so now, if I have found favor in thy sight, let me pass away, and see my brethren. Therefore he hath not come to the king's table.
And Jonathan again made David swear an oath, because he loved him; for with the love of his soul he loved him.
They went up and encamped in Kiriath Jearim, in Judah. Therefore they called the name of that place Mahaneh Dan, unto this day. Behold, it is behind Kiriath Jearim.
And there remained of all the number of Benjamin only six hundred men that were able to escape, and flee unto the wilderness: and they abode in the rock Remmon four months.
And here dying men receive tithes; but there of whom the witness that this delivereth souls;
As faith also, and Sarah he received the ability to procreate even by the days of her age, because he regarded the one that had promised to be faithful.
They cried unto Jehovah, and said, 'We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and have served the Baalim and the Ashtaroth: but now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve you.'
Therefore on that day he called him Jerubbaal, saying, Let Baal, plead against him, because he hath thrown down his altar.
For we know him that said, "Vengeance belongs to me," saith Jehovah, "I shall repay." Again, "The Lord will judge his people."
Rejoice in Lord always: again, I will say, Rejoice.
and shall eat the tenth of thy sheep. And ye shall be his servants.
And when he was come into his house, he took the knife, and laid hold on his concubine, and divided her, according to her bones, into twelve pieces, and sent her into all the borders of Israel.
having chosen rather to be afflicted with the house of God, Than to have sin's pleasure for a season,
He then I hope to send as soon as possible, when I am able to see the things shall go for me:
Forsaking him, and serving Baal, and Astaroth.
And in all his promises David did wisely; and Jehovah was with him.
and he said unto him, "Thus saith Jephthah, 'Israel took not the land of Moab or the land of the Ammonites,
This day Yahweh shall deliver you into my hand, and I will strike thee down and cut off thy head. then will I give the corpses of the host of the Philistines this day unto the birds of the heavens, and to the number of the earth, so that all the earth may know that there is a God that is for Israel.
Now the sons of Heli were children of Belial, not knowing Jehovah,
I pray thee, forgive the trespass of thine handmaid: for Jehovah will surely make my lord a sure house; because my lord fighteth the battles of Jehovah, and evil hath not been found in thee all thy days.
just as I ought to think this concerning all of thee, because I have ye in my heart, since both in my imprisonment and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel all of you sharers of grace with me.
And David spake and said unto Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah Joab's brother, saying, Who shall go down with me to Saul to the camp? And Abishai, said, I will go down with thee.
And the trees said unto the desireth the tree, Come thou, and reign over us.
And all Israel did hear, saying, "Saul hath defeated the garrison of the Philistines; and also, Israel is become a stench among the Philistines!" So the people were called out after Saul to Gilgal.
Then said Saul unto his armourbearer: Draw thy sword, and kill me: lest these uncircumcised come, and slay me, and mock at me. And his armourbearer would not: for he was struck with exceeding great afraid. Therefore Saul took his sword, and fell upon it.
And Micah consecrateth the hand of the Levite, and the young man is unto him for a priest, and he is in the house of Micah,
Saul said unto his servants that stood around him, "Hear now, ye Benjamites! Shall the son of Jesse give every one of you fields and vineyards? Will he make thee all captains of thousands and captains of hundreds,
and choose him out of all the tribes of Israel, to be my priest, to offer upon mine altar, to burning by incense, to wear the ephod before me? and I gave unto the house of thy father all the offering by fire of the children of Israel.
Asher did not dispossess the inhabitants of Accho, nor the inhabitants of Sidon, nor Ahlab, nor Achzib, nor Helbah, nor Aphik, nor Rehob:
If he be able to battle with me, and kill me, we will serve unto you: but if I prevail against him, and kill him, ye shall be servants, and shall serve us.
and he took it out in his hands, and went, and ate as he went. And he came to his father and his mother, and gave them, and they ate; but he would not tell them that he had taken the honey out of the carcase of the lion.
And they told Saul, saying, Behold, the people have sinned against Jehovah, in that they eat with the blood. And he said, Ye have acted perversely: roll me now a great stone.
And all this assembly shall know, that Jehovah saveth not with sword, and spear: for it is his battle, and he shall deliver you into our hand.
And Ehud, escaped as they tarried, and passed beyond the quarries, and escaped unto Seirath.
And the five men go, and come in unto Laish, and see the people which in the midst, confidently, dwelling according to the custom of Sidonians, quiet, and confident; and there is none put to shame in the land in thing, possessing restraint, and they far off from the Sidonians, and have no word with man.
For God is my witness, that I long for all of you with the affection of Christ Jesus.
So God repaid the wickedness that Abimelech committed against his father by killing his seventy brethren.
Then Gideon took ten men of his servants, and did as Yahweh had spoken unto him. Because he feared his father's household and the men of the city, he could not do it by day, but he did it by night.
As soon as ye enter the city, thou shalt find him, before he goeth up to the high place to eat. For the people shall not eat until he is come, because he must bless the sacrifice. And afterward the invited are bidden shall eat. So then go up, because ye shall find him today!"
And he turned back from pursuing David, Saul rebelled against the Philistines: that place was called Sela-hammah-lekoth.
But Adoni-Bezek fled. They pursued him, caught him, and cut off his thumb and his big toes.
Greet all of thy leaders and all the saints. The Italians greet thee.
Moreover Jehovah will give Israel up with thee into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow thou and thy sons will be with me: and Jehovah will give up the host of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
And the man goeth out of the city, out of Beth-Lehem-Judah, to sojourn where he doth find, and cometh to the hill-country of Ephraim, unto the house of Micah, to work his way.
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy unto you before long, that I may be comforted when I have tidings of thee.
And David arose and fled that day from the face of Saul: and came to Achis the king of Geth:
Then Jonathan said unto David, To morrow is the new moon: and thou shalt be missed, because thy throne shall be empty.
And it was told unto Saul, "David is in Naioth in Ramah."
Two of David's wives had been taken captive. Ahinoam from Jezreel, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
So all the people went to Gilgal; and there in Gilgal they made Saul king before Jehovah; and peace-offerings, were offer before Jehovah; and there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced.
Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said unto him, "You are blessed by Yahweh! I have performed the commandment of Yahweh."
David went out when Saul sent him, and he succeeded. So Saul appointed him over the men of the war, and it pleased all the people, and even pleased the servants of Saul.
Eliab his first-born brother heard when he spoke unto the men; and Eliab's measure, burned against David, and he said, "Why hast thou come down? With whom hast thou left them few sheep in the wilderness? For I know thy glory, and the naughtiness of thy heart; for thou art come down that ye may know the battle."
And all the men of Israel are risen from their place, and arrange themselves at Baal-Tamar, and the ambush of Israel cometh forth out of its place, out of the meadow of Gibeah.
And he sent, and brought him in. Now he was ruddy, and withal of a goodly countenance, and goodly to look to. And Jehovah said, Arise, anoint him: for this is he.
But now they aspire to a better land, even a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed of them, that they may be called their God, for he hath prepared for them a city.
But Hannah went not up; for she said unto her husband, I will not go up until the child be weaned, and then will I bring him, that he may appear before Jehovah, and there abide for ever.
lo, I lay the fleece of wool in the threshing-floor: if dew is on the fleece alone, and upon all the earth drought -- then I have known that Thou dost save Israel by my hand, like Thou hast spoken;'
Now therefore, if thou hast done in truth, and righteousness in making Abimelech king, and if thou hast well done Jerubbaal and his house according to the work of their hands;
And the king saith unto her, `Do not afraid; for what hast thou seen?' and the woman saith unto Saul, `Gods I have seen coming up out of the earth.'
Why hast thou kicked away my victims, and my gifts which I commanded shalt offer in the temple: and thou hast rather honorable thy sons than me, to eat the firstfruits of every sacrifice of my people Israel?
For it is evident that our Lord is a descendant of Judah, a tribe with reference unto which Moses spake concerning priests.
And the woman beareth a son, and calleth his name youth and the Samson, groweth, and Jehovah doth bless him,
For the law having a shadow of good things to come, and not the very image of the things, can never with them sacrifices which they offer year by year continually make the comers thereunto perfect.
But Saul said, There shall not a man be put to death this day; for Jehovah hath wrought to-day deliverance in Israel.
that, taking courage, we may say, Jehovah my help, and I will not be afraid: what shall man do unto me?
And the man said unto Eli, I am come for fear of the army and are come away this day from the battle. And he said, How did it go, my son?
`Therefore -- the affirmation of Jehovah, the God of Israel, -- I surely said, Thy house, and the house of thy father, do walked to and fro before Me unto the age; and now -- the affirmation of Jehovah -- Be it far from Me! for he that doth honor Me, I honor, and they despising Me, are lightly esteemed.
Wherefore, (as the Holy Spirit saith, `To-day, if His voice ye may hear --
That it became known throughout all the Praetorium, and to all the rest, that I was a prisoner by reason of Christ;
Whosoever rejected the law of Moses dies without mercy on the testimony of two or three witnesses.
And Jonathan and David made a covenant, because he loved him as his own soul.
He rose up, and followed his wife: and coming to the man, said unto him: Art thou he that spoke unto the woman? And he answered: I am.
Then come down, thou, the remnant of nobles, [as his] people; Jehovah! come down with me in the midst of the mighty ones.
And the Angel of Jehovah appeared unto the woman, and said unto her, Behold now, barren and thou art thou bearest not; but shalt conceive and bear a son.
And David said within himself, Some day shall die me by the hand of Saul: the only thing for me to do shall escape into the land of the Philistines; then Saul shall deliver up hope of taking me in all the border of the land of Israel: therefore I may be able to escape from him.
And his brethren came down, and all the house of his father, and took him, and brought him up, and buried him between Zoreah and Eshtaol, in the sepulchre of Manoah his father. And he had judged Israel twenty years.
being stedfast to He that did appoint him, as also Moses in all his house,
And it was said unto Saul, Behold, the people transgress against Jehovah, taking the blood with the flesh. And he said to them that told him, Now let a great stone be rolled unto me here.
And Saul spake unto Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that they should kill David.
Both the lion and the bear thy servant hath smitten, and this uncircumcised Philistine hath been as one of them, for he hath reproached the ranks of the living God.'
And Jehovah spake unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, Did not I deliver thee from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
And Saul was very wroth, and the saying displeased him: and he said, They have ascribed unto David ten thousands, and to me they have ascribed but thousands: and what can he have more but the kingdom?
let's draw near with a perfect heart in fullness of faith, having our heart sprinkled from an evil conscience, and having our body washed with pure water,
and this unto thee the sign that cometh unto thy two sons, unto Hophni and Phinehas -- in one day, that they die both of them;
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Manoah, Though thou detain me, I will not eat of thy staff and if thou wilt thou must offer a burnt oblation offer it unto Jehovah. For Manoah knew not that he was an angel of the Lord Jehovah.
And they called the name of the city Dan, after Dan their ancestor, who was born unto Israel; but the former name of the city was Laish.
And the people were moved with compassion for Benjamin, because Jehovah had let his wrath away on the tribes of Israel.
if somehow I may attain unto the resurrection from the dead.
And ye shall go forth from thence and also thou shalt come unto the oak of Tabor. There three men shall meet you, that go up to God at Bethel. One shall be carrying three male kid goats, one shall be carrying three loaves of bread, and one shall be carrying a bottle of wine.
And Samson said unto them: I will propose unto thee a riddle, which if ye declare unto me within the seven days of the feast, I will give thee thirty shirts, and as the countries, coats:
David heard in the wilderness that Nabal was shearing his sheep.
And they sent and gathered all the princes of the Philistines, and they said, "Send away the ark of the God of Israel and let it return unto its place, that it shall not kill us and our people." For a deadly confusion was throughout all the city; the hand of God was very heavy there.
Now the words that David had spoken were heard and they reported them unto Saul, and he summoned him.
So David went, he and the six hundred men that were with him, and came to the brook Besor, where they that were left behind stayed.
So do all Thine enemies perish, O Jehovah, And they love He As the going out of the sun in its might!' and the land resteth forty years.
Yahweh's Spirit came mightily upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and struck thirty men of them, and dwelt in their plunder, then gave the changes of garments to them that declared the riddle. His measure, burned, and he went up to his father's house.
But I trust in Jehovah that I myself also shall come shortly.
Of the time of her death the women that stood by her said unto her, "Don't be afraid; for thou hast brought forth a son." But she didn't answer, neither did she regard it.
Now the house was filled with men and women, and all the lords of the Philistines were there; and about three thousand men and women were upon the roof; look upon while Samson made sport.
And the messengers come in, and lo, the teraphim upon the bed, and the mattress of goats' , his pillows.
For unto which of the messengers said He ever, `My Son thou art -- I to-day have begotten thee?' and again, `I shall be unto him for a father, and he shall be Me for a son?'
saying, `I shall declare Thy name unto my brethren, in the midst of an assembly I will sing praise to Thee;' and again, `I shall be trusting upon Him;'
Then the Levites took down the ark of Yahweh and the container that was beside it, wherein were the gold objects, and they set them on the large stone. And the men of Beth Shemesh burnt sacrifices, and they made offer sacrifices unto Yahweh in that day.
After him Jaare-oregim the Gileadite rose up, and he judged Israel twenty and two years.
Hereby God, being determined to show more abundantly unto the heirs of the promise the immutability of his counsel, interposed with an oath,
and the servants of Achish say unto him, `Is not this David king of the land? is it not of this one they sing in dances, saying, `Saul smote among his thousands, and David among his myriads?'
and Saul is eyeing David from that day and thenceforth.
Then both of them made a covenant before Jehovah I David remained at Horesh, and Jonathan went to his house.
And Saul would have sent his spear through him, pinning him to the wall, and he went forth and the spear entered into the wall: and that night David fled and escaped.
For by one offering he hath perfected for ever them that are sanctified.
Now when he was gone, the king's servants came, and saw that the gates of the summer-house were locked; and they said, It may be that he is in his summer-house for a separate purpose.
Yahweh's angel appeared unto him, and said unto him, "Yahweh is with you, ye mighty man of valor!"
The kings came and fought, then fought the kings of Canaan in Taanach by the waters of Megiddo; they took no gain of money.
Only worthily of the gospel of the Christ conduct ye yourselves, that, whether having come and seen you, whether being absent I may hear of the things concerning thee, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one soul, striving together for the faith of the gospel,
And the sons of Israel cry unto Jehovah, and Jehovah raiseth unto them a saviour, Ehud, son of Gera, a Benjamite now (a man -- shut of his right hand), and the sons of Israel send by his hand a present to Eglon king of Moab;
But if they say thus, Come up unto us; then we will go up; for Jehovah hath delivered them into our hand; and this shall be a sign unto us.
Who in the days of his flesh, having supplications and offer up both entreaties unto him all that were able to save him out of death, with strong crying and tears; (and having been heard because of his piety;)
and he saith, Send me away, I pray thee, for a house sacrifice we have in the city, and my brother himself hath given command unto me, and now, if I have found favor in thine eyes, let me pass away, I pray thee, and see my brethren; therefore he hath not come unto the table of the king.'
The Amorites, cast the children of Dan into the hill country, for they would not allow them to come down to the valley,
And the Spirit of Jehovah shall come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shalt be turned into another man.
And it came to pass on the morrow, which was the second day of the month, that David's place was empty: and Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Wherefore cometh not the son of Jesse to meat; neither yesterday, nor to day?
Gilead is remained beyond the Jordan was Why did Dan dwell as a foreigner with ships? Asher sat at the coast of the waters, and by his coves he hath been settling down.
Jehovah -- broken down are His adversaries, Against them in the heavens He thundereth: Jehovah judgeth the ends of earth, And giveth strength to his king, And exalteth the horn of His anointed.'
but David returned and forth from Saul to feed the sheep of his father in Bethlehem.
"In the days of Shamgar son of Anath, in the days of Jael, the caravans had ceased, the travelers, they kept to the byways.
And Jehovah become a reproach upon him, and said, Go in this thy strength, and thou shalt deliver Israel out of the hand of Madian: know that I have sent thee.
and Elon the Zebulunite dieth, and is buried of Aijalon, in the land of Zebulun, twelve cities.
Won't ye possess that which Chemosh thy god giveth thee to possess? So whosoever Yahweh our God hath dispossessed from before us, them shall we possess.
even as also in another he saith, *Thou* a priest for ever according to the commandment of Melchisedec.
goodness, Fit thee in all that ye may do his will; but to do in thee that which is well acceptable in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom is glory for ever and ever. Amen.
So Saul beheld David with suspicion from that day onward.
And it came to pass the next day, that an evil spirit from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house, but David played with his hand, as on other days; and the spear was in Saul's hand.
And after him, Elon the Zebulonite was judge of Israel; and he was judge of Israel for ten years.
Saul's uncle said unto him, and to his servant, "Where went ye seek the go?" He said, "To donkeys. When we saw that they were not found, we came to Samuel."
And Abigail cometh in unto Nabal, and lo, he hath a banquet in his house, as a banquet of the king, and the heart of Nabal glad within him, and he drunk unto excess, and she hath not declared unto him Joseph's hand; less or more, until the light of the morning.
Then Samuel said, Let all Israel come to Mizpah, and I will pray unto Jehovah for you.
And Jehovah came, and stood, and called as at the other times, Samuel, Samuel. Then Samuel answered, Speak; for thy servant heareth.
He took the elders of the city, and thorns of the wilderness and briers, and with them he taught the men of Succoth.
Then Jesse made Shammah to pass by. He said, "Yahweh hath not chosen this one, either."
And Jonathan answered his father Saul, said unto him, Why is he to be put to death? What hath he done?
And Saul summoned all the people to war, to go down to Keilah, to besiege David and his men.
Then David said unto the Philistine, Thou come unto me with a sword and a spear and a javelin: but I come unto you in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the camp of Israel upon which thou hast set shame.
For they that say such things shew expressly, that they seek country.
always in every request of mine, on behalf of you all to profane my am with joy,
and a certain woman doth cast a piece of a rider upon the head of Abimelech and breaketh his skull,
Because thou hast not hearkened to the voice of Jehovah, nor didst the fierceness of His measure, upon Amalek -- therefore this thing hath Jehovah done unto thee this day;
Now the angel of Jehovah came and sat under the oak in Ophrah, in the field of Joash the Abiezrite; and his son Gideon was grinding in the place where the winepress was oppressed, be that the Midian should not see it.
And David and his men, about six hundred of them, went out of Keilah, and escaped whither they were able to go. And Saul, heard that David had escaped, Keilah, entered not there.
And when the Philistines had beard this, and it was noised about among them, that Samson was come into the city, they surrounded him, setting guards at the gate of the city, and watching there all the night in silence, that in the morning they might kill him as he went out.
and thou hast beheld an adversary [in My] habitation, in all that He doth good with Israel, and there is not an old man in thy house all the days.
And they put his armor in the temple of the Ashtoreth and they fastened his corpse to the wall of Beth Shan.
Rejoice in Jehovah always; again I say, rejoice.
But Hannah did not go, for she said unto her husband, I will not go until the child is removed from over the bosom, and then I will raise him with me and set him before Jehovah, where he may be for ever.
So David and his men rose up early in the morning to return unto the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
Then Samson went down to Thamnatlia, and when he saw there a woman of the daughters of the Philistines,
and he hath thirty sons riding upon thirty ass-colts, and they have thirty cities, (for they call them Havoth-Jair unto this day), which in the land of Gilead.
Now in saying a new thing, he hath made the former old. And that which decayeth and groweth old, is nigh unto the end.
And Samuel spoken: Doth Jehovah desire holocausts and victims, and not rather that the voice of Jehovah should be obeyed? For obedience is better than sacrifices: and to hearken rather than to offer the fat of rams.
And "You, Jehovah, in the beginning, laid the foundation of the earth. The heavens are the works of thy hands.
As he heard with them, behold, the champion, the Philistine of Gath, Goliath by name, came up out of the ranks of the Philistines, and said the same words: and David heard them.
When he had brought him down, behold, they were spread around over all the ground, eating, drunkenness, and dancing, because of all the great plunder that they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
As all the deeds they have done from the day I brought them up out of Egypt, until this day, they have forsaken me, and have served other godsso they do unto thee also.
but one hath testified somewhere, saying, What is man, that thou rememberest him, or son of man that thou visitest him?
And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned: for I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and thy words: because I feared the people, and obeyed their voice.
He saith unto him, "If now I have found favor in thy sight, then show me a sign that it is ye that speaking with me.
nor yet that he should offer himself often, as the high priest enters into the holy place year by year with blood not his own,
But if ye continue to do wickedness, both thou, and thy king shall be swept away."
And the lords of the Philistines continued hundreds, and their thousands, and David and his men followed with Achish.
Now where there is remission of these, there is no more an offering for sin.
And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and he rehearsed them in the ears of Jehovah.
for whom Lord loves he chastens, and scourges every son whom he receives.
and he struck it into the pan, or kettle, or cauldron, or pot. the priest took of it all that the flesh-hook brought up. And they did in Shiloh, unto all the Israelites that came there.
And they set them up Micah's graven image, which he made, all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
And Saul said, Draw ye near hither, all the chief of the people: and know and see wherein this sin hath been this day.
And this permits. if God will we do,
And Ephraim hath not dispossessed the Canaanite, that is dwelling in Gezer and the Canaanite, dwelleth in the midst, in Gezer.
that ye may become blameless and innocent, children of God without fault in the midst of a crooked and perverted generation, among whom thou shine as stars in the world,
But I am very glad in Jehovah, that your zeal for me is come from the dead; though ye did so and take counsel for me, but ye were not able to perform it.
and being perfected, he began to the source of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him,
Speak unto the people, and proclaim in the ears of all, I Whosoever is fearful and timorous, let him return. So two and twenty thousand men went away from mount Galaad and returned home, and only ten thousand remained.
Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people by his own blood, suffered without the gate.
For I have no one like-minded who will charge with genuine countenance, how ye buy on.
And he saith unto all Israel, `Ye -- ye are on the one side, and I and Jonathan my son are upon another side;' and the people say unto Saul, `That which is good in thine eyes do.'
And Abimelech went to Thebez, and he Thebez and encamped against captured it.
Neither did Naphtali drive out the inhabitants of Bethshemesh, nor the inhabitants of Bethanath; but he dwelt among the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land: nevertheless the inhabitants of Bethshemesh and of Bethanath became tributaries unto them.
And the men of Ephraim gathered themselves together, and went northward, and said unto Jephthah, Wherefore passedst thou over to battle against the children of Ammon, and didst not call us to go with thee? we will burning by thine house upon thee with fire.
And now the king goeth before thee; but I am old and greyheaded: and my sons are with thee: having then conversed with thee from my youth unto this day, behold here I am.
And Saul said, Cast lots between me and Jonathan my son. And Jonathan was taken.
And these things having been thus prepared, into the first tabernacle, indeed, always the priests do go in, performing the services,
And Dalila said unto him again: How long dost thou deceive me, and tell me lies? shew me wherewith thou mayest be bound. And Samson answer her: If thou plattest the seven set my head with a lace, and tying them round about a nail fastenest it in the ground, I shall be weak.
And he smote them from Aroer, which is till thou come to Mennith, twenty cities, and as far as Abel. which is set with vineyards, with a very great slaughter: and the children of Ammon were humbled by the children of Israel.
For that leaders led in Israel, For that the people willingly offered themselves, Bless Jehovah!
And Abimelech went up unto mount Zalmon, he and all his army that were with him, and Abimelech took the ax in his hand, and cut down a bundle of brushwood, and he lifted it and put it upon his shoulder. And he said unto the host that was with him, "What thou hast seen me, do, quickly do also."
And when the burning began to rise up out of the city as a pillar of smoke, Benjamin as one behind, and behold, the whole city ascended [in smoke] to the heavens.
for also our God a consuming fire.
For Yahweh will not forsake his people for his great name's sake, for it hath pleased Yahweh to make thee a people for his name.
Only lead your time in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ, that whether I come and see thee, neither am absent I hear thy standing circumstances, that ye are firm in one spirit, with one soul contending side by side for the faith of the gospel,
`This the covenant that I will make with them after those days, saith Jehovah, giving My statutes upon their heart, and upon their minds I will write them,'
But if ye are without chastening, whereof all have been made partakers, then are ye bastards, and not sons.
So then prepare one new utility cart, and two milking kine that have never had a yoke upon them, and thou must harness the kine unto the utility cart, and then one by their calves from following them to their stall.
And if thou fear thou go to sink, Phurah with thy servant down to the camp;
and Jesse calleth unto Abinadab, and causeth him to pass by before Samuel; and he saith, `Also on this Jehovah hath not fixed.'
And Hannah answer and said, Nay, my lord, I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit: I have drunk neither wine nor strong drink, but have poured out my soul before Jehovah.
The kings came upon to the battle, the kings of Canaan were warring; in Taanach by the waters of Megiddo: they took not profit money.
They were making their heart merry, when behold, the men of the city, sons of Belial, surrounded the house, beating at the gate: and they spoke unto the master of the house, the old man, saying, Bring forth the man that came into thy house, that we may know him.
And the watchmen behold, a man coming out of the city, and said unto him, If thou wilt show us the gate of the city, we will deal kindly with thee.
As faith Moses, when he became a man, would none to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter;
Saul stayed in the uttermost part of Gibeah under the pomegranates tree which is in Migron: and the people that were with him were about six hundred men;
Now Kish begat Saul, but Ner, the father of Abner was the son of Abiel.
And David said to Achimelech the priest: The king hath commanded me a affairs, spoken: Let no man know the thing for which thou art sent by me, and what manner of commands I have given thee: and I have appointed my servants to such and such a place.
Elkanah went to Ramah, to his house. The child served Yahweh before Eli the priest.
And Jephthah cometh into Mizpeh, unto his house, and lo, his daughter cometh forth to meet him with timbrels, and with choruses, and save her alone, he hath none, son or daughter.
And behold, Saul came after the oxen from the field; and Saul said, What the people that they weep? And they related to him the words of the men of Jabesh.
So that my bands are made manifest in Christ, in all the court, and in all other places;
God severely punish the enemies of David, and again do thus if I leave behind anything that is his until the morning, not even one male!"
And Manoah saith unto his wife, `We surely die, for we have seen God.'
And they found Adoni-Bezek in Bezek, and fought against him, and they smote the Canaanite, and the Perizzites.
Jonathan hailstones David to swear again, for the love that he had unto him; for he loved him as he loved his own soul.
Now unto our God and Father be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
For God had kept some better thing for us, that I could not for them to be perfect without us.
He came to the men of Succoth, and he said, "Here is Zebah and Zalmunna, about whom thou taunted me, saying, 'Is the palm of Zebah and Zalmunna in thy hand now, that we should be the shepherd of thy weary men?'"
"Then a remnant of the nobles and the people came down. Yahweh came down for me against the mighty.
And it was so, that all that saw it, said, There hath been no such deed done nor seen from the day that the children of Israel came up out of the land of Egypt unto this day: consider of it, take advice, and speak your ears.
And Saul casteth the javelin at him to smite him, and Jonathan knoweth that it hath been determined by his father to have slain David.
Zebulun was a people that jeopardized their lives unto the death; Naphtali also, upon the high places of the field.
Now Hobab the Kenite, and Moses' father-in-law, came up out of the city of palm-trees, with the children of Judah into the wilderness of Arad; and he went and dwelt among the Amalekites;
But into the second went the high priest alone once every year, not without blood, which he for himself, and the iniquity of the people:
And she arose, and bowed herself to the earth, and said, Behold, let thine handmaid serve wash the feet of the servants of my lord.
But his master said unto him, We will not go out of our way into a foreign city, whose people are not of the children of Israel; but we will go along to Gibeah.
And he returned after a time to take her, and he turned aside to see the carcase of the lion; And behold, [there was] a swarm of bees in the carcase of the lion, and honey;
nor in order that he should offer himself often, as the high priest enters into the holy places every year with blood not his own;
Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood, suffered without the gate.
And they forgot Jehovah their God, and he delivered them into the hand of Sisara, captain of the host of Hasor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought against them.
And it came to pass when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah came into the camp, that all Israel shouted with a great shout, so that the earth shook.
And Delilah said unto Samson, Hitherto thou hast mocked me, and told me lies. Tell me with what thou mightest be bound. And he said unto her, If thou shouldest weave the seven set my head with the web.
For a tent was prepared, the first one, wherein were the lampstand and the table and the presentation of the loaves, which is called the sanctuary.
For it became him; for whom are all things, and through whom are all things, in bringing the countries, and children to glory, to make the author of their salvation perfect through sufferings.
And Zebul said unto him, "Where then is thy boast, ye that said, 'Who is Abimelech that we should serve him?' Is not this the host that thou rejected? Please, go forth now and battle against them."
For this Melchisedek, king of Salem priest of God Most High, who did meet Abraham turn away from the smiting of the kings, and did bless him,
Therefore when he cometh into the world, he saith, "Sacrifice and oblation that ye didn't desire, but ye prepared a body for me.
All the saints salute thee, chiefly they that are of Caesar's household.
And they gathered together to Mizpah, and drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah, and fasted in that day, and said there, We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizpah.
And they cried unto Jehovah and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and have served the Baalim and the Ashtoreths; and now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.
And Jonathan said unto David, The Jehovah, the God of Israel, be testimony: when I have had opportunity of speaking to my father, about this time to-morrow, if himself to David are good, shall I not send and give thee the tidings?
The brethren that are with me, salute you. All the saints salute thee; especially they that are of Caesar's household.
Saul said unto David, "You are not able to go against this Philistine to battle with him; for thou art But a youth, and he a man of war, from his youth."
And Samuel said unto all Israel: Behold I have hearkened unto thy voice in all that thou said unto me, and have made a king over thee.
And the Philistines gather all their camps unto Aphek, and the Israelites are encamping at a fountain which in Jezreel,
And the children of Ammon were called together and encamped in the Gileadites: and the children of Israel gathered together, and encamped in Mizpeh.
Therefore they sent the ark of God into Accaron. And when the ark of God was come into Accaron, the Accaronites cried out, voice, saying, They have brought the ark of the God of Israel unto us, to kill us and our people.
and Saul saith, `Hear, I pray thee, son of Ahitub;' and he saith, `Here I, my lord.'
And the sons of Israel walk to and fro thence at that time, each unto his tribe, and his own house; and they go out thence each unto his inheritance.
Obey thy leaders, and be submissive; for *they* watch over your soul as those that shall give sake; that they may do this with joy, and not groaning, for this [would be] unprofitable for you.
And I said unto you, I am Jehovah your God: ye shall not worship the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye sojourn, but ye did not hearken unto my voice.
Then all the Midianites, Amalekites, and David and the inhabitants of the east gathered together, and crossed the Jordan: and, lo, they camped in the valley of Jezreel.
Then Samuel took the vial of oil, of oil, and pour it upon him, and gave him a kiss and said, Is not Jehovah with the anointing oil, making thee to rule over Israel, his people? and thou shalt have authority over the people of Jehovah, and thou shalt make them out of the hand of their adversaries round about them, and this shall be the sign for you:
that hath been constituted not according to law of fleshly commandment, but according to power of indissoluble life.
And all the people said unto Samuel, "Pray for thy servants to Yahweh thy God that we shall not die, because we have added unto all our sins by besought a king over ourselves."
And all the people rose up as one man, saying, We will not any one to his tents, neither will we any one purifications accomplished, into his house.
And he said unto them, Wherefore commit ye such things? for from all this people I gather treasurer of your evil ways.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Manoah, Though thou keep me I will not take of thy hunger; But if thou wilt make a burnt-offering, thou shalt offer it, unto Jehovah. For it had not come into Manoah's mind that he was the angel of Jehovah.
Ehud, made himself a sword which had two As for their a cubit in length; and he wore it under his garments upon his right thigh.
and take the ark of Jehovah, and lay it upon the cart, and the golden jewels, which ye return him for a trespass-offering, put in the coffer by the side thereof; and send it away that it may go.
and take their daughters unto them for wives, and their daughters have appointed for your sons, and they serve their gods;
And it came to pass, while Saul spoken unto the priest, that the noise that was in the host of the Philistines journeyed and increased: and Saul said unto the priest, Withdraw thine hand.
And from thence David rose up, and took covering in the refuge of En-gedi.
Now the house was filled with men and women, and all the lords of the Philistines were there; and upon the roof there were about three thousand men and women, that they esteemed as Samson made sport.
And David rose up early, he and his men, to depart in the morning, to return into the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jizreel.
And Hannah, in prayer before Jehovah, saying, My heart is glad in Jehovah, my horn hast thou exalted in Jehovah: my mouth open over them that hate me, because my rejoice in thy salvation.
When the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they each departed unto his place.
And none of these gathered the precious things of the covenant, though they all had a good testimony through faith,
And David is hidden in the field, and it is the new moon, and the king sitteth down by the food to eat,
And Samuel called the people together unto Jehovah to Mizpah.
And it cometh to pass, after days, in the days of Samson wheat-harvest, that looketh after his wife, with a kid of the goats, and saith, `I go in unto my wife, to the inner chamber;' and her father hath not permitted him to go in,
Then David said unto his young men: Let each man gird upon his sword. And they girded on every man his sword. And David also girded on his sword: and there followed David about four hundred men: and two hundred remained with the baggage.
And he brought him to his house, and he fed the donkeys; they washed their feet, ate, and drank.
and Jehovah saith unto Samuel, `Hearken unto their voice, and thou hast cause him to reign over them a king.' And Samuel saith unto the men of Israel, ye `Go each unto his city.'
Because of thy help in preaching good tidings from the first day until now:
When he had finished prophesying, he came to the high place.
And the word of Samuel came to all Israel. Now Israel went out against the Philistines to battle, and pitched beside Ebenezer: and the Philistines pitched in Aphek.
Then Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head, and captain over them; and Jephthah uttered all his words before Jehovah in Mizpah.
And when Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning, it was told Samuel, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and, behold, he set him up a place, and is gone about, and passed over, and gone down to Gilgal.
And the hair of his head beginneth to shoot up, when he hath been shaven,
So I sware in my wrath, They shall not enter into my rest.)
And the man rose up to go away, but his father-in-law would not let him go, so he rested standing, for the night.
Therefore let us also, seeing we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, lay aside every weight and the sins of so easily entangles us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us,
They said, "Yahweh, the God of Israel, why hath this happened in Israel, that there should be one tribe lacking in Israel today?"
And Jehovah, "You, laid the foundation of the earth in the beginning, and the heavens are the work of your hands;
Think this in yourselves which was also in Christ Jesus,
and had taken captive the women, and all that were in it, both small and great. They didn't kill any, but carried them off, and went their way.
So Jerobaal the son of Joas went, and dwelt in his own house.
And the men of Israel were called from Naphtali, from Asher, and from all of Manasseh, and they pursued after Midian.
Then the lords of the Philistines gathered them together for to offer a great sacrifice unto Dagon their god, and to rejoice: for they said, Our god Samson our enemy hath delivered into our hand.
And Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel. And the land had rest fourscore years.
And Achish saith unto his servants, `Lo, ye see a man play the madman; why do ye bring him in unto me?
And David said to Ahimelech the priest, the king hath commanded me a matter, and hath said unto me, Let no man know anything of the business whereon I send thee, and that which I have commanded thee; and I have directed the young men to such and such a place.
Afterward the descendants of Judah pursued to battle against the Canaanites that dwelt in the hill country, the Negev, and the Shephelah.
And David was greatly afflicted: for the people were minded to stone him: for the soul of every man was sorely grieved for his sons and daughters: but David took courage in Jehovah his God.
Jair died, and was buried in Kamon.
And the word of Samuel came to all Israel. Now Israel went out to meet the Philistines for battle, and they encamped at Ebenezer, and the Philistines encamped at Aphek.
Therefore Saul said unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, "Show the right." Jonathan and Saul were chosen, but the people escaped.
And when his servants told David these words, it pleased David well to be the king's son in law: and the days were not expired.
Now if it was meet for things to be filled through the priests of the house of Levi (for the law was given to the people concerning them), what need was there for another priest who was of the commandment of Melchizedek and not of the commandment of Aaron?
And Saul's uncle said, Tell me, I pray thee, what Samuel said unto thee.
And the king of the children of Ammon would not hearken unto the words of Jephte, which he sent him by the messengers.
And Isai took an ass laden with bread, and an alabaster cruse of wine, and a kid of the flock, and sent them by the hand of David his son to Saul.
"Now therefore take and prepare yourselves a new cart, and two milk kine, whereon there is come no yoke; and tie the kine unto the cart, and bring their calves home from them;
So we must go out to him without the camp, bearing his reproach.
Then a man for fear of the army informed him and said, "Your father made the host swear a solemn vow, saying, 'Cursed be the man that eats food today,'" so the host is exhausted.
And they brought their bones and buried them under the tamarisk in Jabesh, and they fasted seven days.
And again, when he bringeth in the first begotten into the world, he saith: And all the angels of God adore him.
And it came to pass, when the demon from God was upon Saul, that David took a harp, and played with his hand; so Saul was refreshed, and was well, and the demon departed from him.
As faith we know that the times or seasons, was appointed by the word of God, that what is seen hath not been made from things that only seem to be.
Thou madest him a little lower than the angels; thou crownedst him with glory and honor and didst set him over the works of thy hand:
Therefore I was constrained to make the copies of the things in heaven clean with these oblations; but the things themselves are cleansed with better sacrifices than these.
So the Philistines fought, and Israel was overthrown, and every man fled to his own dwelling: and there was an exceeding great slaughter; for there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen.
For where there is a covenant, the death of the testator must of necessity come in.
Thus they inclosed the Benjamites round about, and chased them, and trode them down with ease over against Gibeah toward the sunrising.
And he did not make an offering of himself and many times as the high priest goeth in unto the holy place every year with blood which is not his;
And David heard in the wilderness that Nabal was shearing his sheep.
and rise now, thou early in the morning, and the servants of thy lord that are come with thee, when ye have risen early in the morning, and have light, then go ye.'
And the land had rest forty years. And Othniel, the son of Kenaz, died.
And almost all things, according to the law, are cleansed with blood: and without shedding of blood there is no remission.
And forthwith Saul fell all along on the ground, for he was frightened with the words of Samuel, and there was no strength in him; for he had eaten no bread all that day.
Whereupon neither the first covenant was dedicated without blood.
The Israelites did not remember Yahweh their God, who had delivered them from the hand of their enemies from all around,
And Elkanah her husband saith unto her, `Do that which is good in thine eyes; abide until thy weaning him; only, Jehovah establish His word;' and the woman abideth and suckleth her son until she hath weaned him,
And the countries, and of the brethren in Jehovah, waxing confident by my bonds, are much more bold to speak the word with boldness.
but if also I am poured forth upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice and joy with you all,
So Israel against an ambush all around Gibeah.
Then David came to Ziklag, and he sent some of the plunder unto the elders of Judah, to his friends, saying, "Here is a gift for thee from the plunder of the enemies of Yahweh!"
Obey them that have the reign over thee, and submit yourselves: for they watch for your souls go, as they that must give separation, that they may do it with joy, and not with heart: for that is unprofitable for you.
For there is a setting aside of the commandment going before for the weakness and unprofitableness,
Moreover also the Hosanna of Israel shall not lie; and his purpose cannot be changed: for he is not a man, whose purpose may be changed.
Jael went out to meet Sisera, and said unto him, "Turn in, my lord, purifications accomplished, in unto me; don't be afraid." He came in unto her, into the tent, and she covered him with a rug.
and it cometh to pass, in the going up of the flame from off the altar toward the heavens, that the messenger of Jehovah goeth up in the flame of the altar, and Manoah and his wife, look and they fall with their faces to the earth,
Then the princes of the Philistines went out; and as often as they went out, David behaved himself more soberly than all the servants of Saul, that his name was very great esteemed.
But when the time came to give of Saul, Saul's daughter, to David, she was given to Adriel of Meholath.
And Samson and his parents went down to Timnah, and they came unto the vineyards of Timnah, and suddenly a young lion came roaring to meet him.
Because of the flowing hair of the her hired in Israel, because the people gave themselves and withholdeth praise Jehovah.
Behold, my daughter, that is a virgin, and his concubine; let me bring them out, and humble ye them, and do unto them as is good in thy sight; but to this man do not so vile a thing.
seeing therefore it remains that some should enter therein, and they to whom the gospel preached was before failed to enter in by reason of disobedience,
And they said, What one is there of the tribes of Israel that came not up to Mizpah, to Jehovah? And behold, there came none to the camp from Jabesh-Gilead, unto the congregation;
David stayed in the wilderness in the strongholds, and remained in the hill country in the wilderness of Ziph. Saul sought him every day, but God didn't deliver him into his hand.
And he that sacrificed said unto him: Let the fat first be burnt unto day according to the custom, and then ye take thy soul desireth. But he answer and said unto him: not so: but thou shalt give it me now, or else I will take it by force.
But it came to pass within a while after, in the time of wheat harvest, that Samson visited his wife with a kid; and he said, I will go in unto my wife into the chamber. But her father would not suffer him to go in.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; for he had nine hundred chariots of iron, and he mightily oppressed the children of Israel twenty years.
which way he did initiate for us -- new and living, through the vail, that is, his flesh --
And Samson goeth unto Gaza, and seeth there a woman, a harlot, and goeth in unto her;
The border of the Amorites, was from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock, and upward.
Then Heli called Samuel, and spoken: Samuel, my son. And he answered: Here am I.
Now the ark of Yahweh had been in the territory of the Philistines seven months
grace unto you, and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Know that our brother Timothy hath been released, with whom I will see thee, if he cometh quickly satisfied.
If therefore any exhortation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of spirit, if any bowels and tender mercies,
And she arose and bowed herself down with her face to the earth, and said, Behold, let thy servant be a handmaid, to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.
The servant answer Saul again, and said, Behold there is found in my hand the fourth part of a sicle of silver, let us give it unto the man of God, that he may tell us our way.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Manoah, Let the woman hear what I have spoken unto her.
But this with an oath, by him that said unto him: The Lord hath sworn, and he shall not repent, Thou art a priest for ever.)
Now consider whereon thou standest and see this great thing which Jehovah will do in the midst of thee.
Then said Saul unto the servants that were standing around him, "Please listen, Benjaminites! Shall the son of Jesse give thee all fields and vineyards? Will he make all of you commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds?
and the sons of Israel go up against the sons of Benjamin, on the third day, and arrange themselves against Gibeah, as time by time.
But of the Son he saith, "Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of uprightness is the scepter of thy Kingdom.
And when they heard that what David said, they gave Saul word of it: and he sent for him.
And the men of Israel and Juda rising up shouted, and pursued after the Philistines until they came unto the valley and to the gates of Accaron, and there fell the countries, wounded of the Philistines in the way of Saraim, and as far as Geth, and as far as Accaron.
And the people said unto Saul, Is we should die Jonathan the laborer of this great salvation for Israel? Let it not be so: by Jehovah liveth, not one hair of his head shall be touched, for he hath been working with God this day. So the people kept Jonathan from death.
And the name of the man Nabal, and the name of his wife Abigail and the woman of good understanding, and of goodly form nor comeliness; and the man hard and evil doings; and he a Calebite.
And he said unto the men of Soccoth: give, I beseech thee, bread to the people that is with me, for they are faint: that we may pursue Zebee, and Salmana the kings of Madian.
for he also ailed nigh to death, but God did deal it was with him, and not with him only, but also with me, that sorrow upon sorrow I should not know him.
But if not, let fire come out from Abimelech and it shall devour the inhabitants of Shechem and Beth-millo; and let fire come out from the inhabitants of Shechem and Beth-millo, to destroy Abimelech.
Then Samuel said, Make Agag, the king of the Amalekites, and David hither to me. And Agag came unto him trembled. And Agag said, Verily anguish is old.
Therefore neither the priests of Dagon, nor any that come into Dagon's house, tread upon the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod, unto this day.
When he had finished offering the tribute, he sent away the people that carried the tribute.
And the Philistines were afraid, voice, saying, God is come into the camp. And sighing, they spoken:
And may be found in him, not having my justice, which is of the law, but that which is of the faith of Christ Jesus, which is of God, justice in faith:
And the king said, Inquire thou whose son this youth is.
Therefore shall ye shall make you thy tumors, and idols of thy mice that mar the land; and ye shall glorify the God of Israel. Perhaps he shall release his hand from thee, from thy gods, and from thy land.
Saul said unto David, "Behold, my elder daughter of Saul, I will give her unto thee as wife. Only be valiant for me, and battle Yahweh's battles." For Saul said, "Don't let my hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him."
And David took the head of the Philistine and brought it to Jerusalem; but he laid his armour in his tent.
And betimes in the morning, at sun rising set upon the city. And when he shall come out against thee with his people, be thou shalt be able.
Delilah said unto Samson, "Please tell me where thy great strength lies, and what ye might be bound to afflict you."
Now therefore, please pardon mine iniquity, And their purifications accomplished, again with me, that I may worship Yahweh."
and a high priest over the house of God,
And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold now, an evil spirit from God troubleth thee.
He ran, and stood over the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew it out of the sheath, and slew him, and cut off his head. And the Philistines seeing their champion was dead, fled away.
And Saul saith, `Thus do ye speak unto David, There is no delight to the king in dowry, but in a hundred foreskins of the Philistines -- to be avenged on the enemies of the king;' and Saul heed to cause David to fall by the hand of the Philistines.
And when their fathers nor their brethren come and strive, thou shalt say unto them, Give them unto us, as a shameful benefit; for we did not bring them as wives for ourselves in war: and if ye yourselves had given them unto us ye would have been over the broken sware.
Wherefore we receiving a kingdom which cannot be moved, let us have grace, whereby we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear:
`And, now, this blessing which thy maid-servant hath brought unto my lord -- it hath been given to the young men that go up and down at the feet of my lord.
And the lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and said unto her, Persuade him, and see in what of his might, is, and with what we may prevail against him, that we may bind him to overpower him; and we will each give thee eleven hundred silver-pieces.
But in this thing ye have forsaken me, and have been servants unto other gods: so I will be thy salvation not.
Then saith he to Zebah and Zalmunna, What manner of men were they that ye slew at Tabor? And they answered, As thou art: so were they; each one resembled the sons of a king.
And he brought them into his house, and set the asses food; and wash their feet they did eat and drink.
And as toucheth the matter which thou and I have spoken of, both behold, Jehovah be between thee and me for ever.
He sent messengers throughout all Manasseh; and they also were gathered together to follow him. He sent messengers to Asher, and to Zebulun, and to Naphtali; and they came up to meet them.
And Samson said unto the lad that held him by the hand, Suffer me that I may feel the pillars whereupon the house that I may standeth, lean upon them.
But Jonathan Saul's son delighted much in David; and Jonathan told David, saying, Saul my father seeketh to kill thee: now therefore, I pray thee, take heed to thyself until the morning, and abide in a cellar, and hide thyself:
But if I say thus unto the youth: Behold, the arrows are beyond thee,go thy way; for Jehovah bringeth thee away.
And when David knew that Saul devised mischief against him, he said unto Abiathar the priest, Bring the ephod inward.
And they did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and they served their God, and forgot Baalim and Astaroth.
Swear unto me of the Lord, that thou wilt not destroy my seed after me, nor take away my name from the house of my father.
The three eldest sons of Jesse was gone and followed Saul to the battle. The names of his three sons that went to the battle were Eliab, the firstborn, his second first-born was Abinadab, and the third was Shammah.
When they were by Jebus, the day was far spent; and the servant said unto his master, "Please come and let us turning aside into this city of the Jebusites, and stay in it."
And they have been the countries, priests, for being hindered from continuing the pit;
and David goeth and returning from Saul, to feed the flock of his father at Beth-Lehem.
They commanded the children of Benjamin, saying, "Go and lie in wait in the vineyards,
And the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan to battle also against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim: and Israel was greatly distressed.
and said unto him, Behold, thou art become old, and thy sons walked not in thy ways: now appoint us a king to judge us, as all the nations.
Ye yourselves know, thou also Philippians, that in the beginning of the Good News, when I departed from Macedonia, no assembly shared with me in the matter of giving and receiving but thou only.
Behold, here is my daughter, a virgin; and his concubine: I will drive them out for thee to bring them and do with them as thou will. But do no such thing of shame to this man.
When all the men of Israel saw the man, they fled from his presence and were very afraid.
And they forsook Jehovah, and served Baal, and the Ashtoreths.
All the saints greet thee, and especially those of Caesar's household.
He ran to Eli, and said, "Here am I, for thou called me." He said, Lie down "I didn't call. again." He went and lay down.
The lad went, and David arose from the side of the south, and fell on his face to the ground, and bowed himself three times; and they kissed one another, and wept one with another, until David exceeded.
And they found Adonibezec in Bezec, and fought against him, and they defeated the Chanaanite, and the Pherezite.
Then said they, "You have not exploited us, or oppressed us, and ye have not delivered the hand of anyone."
Therefore neither the priests of Dagon, nor any that come into Dagon's house, step upon the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod, unto this day.
So all the people went to Gilgal and they made Saul king there before Yahweh in Gilgal. They sacrificed fellowship sacrifices there before Jehovah I Then Saul rejoiced there greatly along with all the men of Israel.
And Ehud, had lingered, and escaped as they passed beyond the graven images, and escaped to Seirah.
and Sihon hath not trusted Israel to pass over through his border, and Sihon gathereth all his people, and they encamp in Jahaz, and battle with Israel;
how much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish unto God, cleanse our consciences from dead works to serve the living God?
When Yahweh sent you in the way, he said unto thee: 'Go! Thou must utterly destroy the wicked, the Amalekites, and David and ye must battle against them until thou hast destroyed them.'
"Then the hooves of the horse beat loudly, because of galloping, galloping of his stallions.
and lo, Saul hath come after the herd out of the field, and Saul saith, `What -- unto the people, that they weep?' and they recount to him the words of the men of Jabesh.
Who were seven hundred most valiant men, power with the left hand and also with the portion reserved; and sure slinging stones so that they could hit even a hair, and not miss by the stone's going on either side.
For yet a little while, and he that shall come shall come, and shall not tarry.
And Jehovah discomfited Sisera, and all his chariots, and all his host, with the edge of the sword before Barak; that Sisera kindled down off his chariot, and fled away upon his feet.
for the coming in of the violence the seventy sons of Jerubbaal, and of their blood to place on Abimelech their brother, that slew them, and upon the masters of Shechem, that strengthened his hands to slay his brethren.
And it is declared unto Saul, saying, `Lo, David in Naioth in Ramah.'
And if it cometh to pass, the name of Jonathan is cut off from the house of David, Jehovah will make David a debtor.
And the men of Israel, beside Benjamin, their generations, four hundred thousand men that drew sword: all these were mighty men of valor.
For consider him that hath endured such contradiction of sinners against himself, that thou don't grow weary, fainting in your souls.
And Micah said unto him, "From where do ye come?" And he said unto him, "I am a Levite from Bethlehem in Judah; I go to dwell as a foreigner whithersoever I can find a place."
And they set up to themselves the graven idol, and Jonathan the son of Gersam the son of Moses, he and his sons were priests in the tribe of Dan, until the day of their captivity.
And he stood and cried unto the ranks of Israel, and said unto them, Why are ye come out to set thy battle in array? am not I the Philistine, and ye servants of Saul? choose you a man, and let him come down to me.
The woman bore a son, and she called him Samson; the lad grew Yahweh big, and blessed him.
And Samuel told the people the law of the kingdom, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before Jehovah: and Samuel sent away all the people, every one to his own house.
For every house is built by some man: but he that created all things, is God.
So David received of her hand that which she had brought him, and said unto her, Go up in peace to thine house; behold, I have hearkened unto thy voice, and have accepted thy person.
So David took the spear and the vessel of water from Saul's head; and they escaped without any man seeing them, or a good them, nor awaking; for they were all and sleep because a deep sleep from Jehovah was fallen upon them.
And they told Saul, saying, Behold, the people have sinned against Jehovah, in that they eat with the blood. And he said, Ye have transgressed: roll a great stone unto me this day.
And they drew up their host against Benjamin the third time, as they had done the first and second.
I will declare thy name unto my brethren; in the midst of the church will I praise thee.
Then Saul sent messengers to Isai, voice, saying, Send me David thy son, that is in the pastures.
And it answer them: If indeed ye mean to make me king, come ye and rest under my shadow: but if thou mean it not, let fire come out from the bramble, and devour the cedars of Libanus.
The Israelites cried out unto Jehovah, and Yahweh raised up a deliverer for the Israelites that delivered them, Othniel, son chief Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
Let no man be done through contention, neither by vain glory: but in humility, let each esteem others better than themselves:
And as for the matter concerning which thou and I look, spoke, Yahweh is between me and thee forever."
have I lack of madmen, that ye have brought this one to rave in my presence? shall this come into my house?
for a disannulling indeed doth come of the command going before because of its weakness, and unprofitableness,
But if thou canst not explain it unto me, ye must give me thirty linen garments and thirty festal garments." They said therefore unto him, "Tell thy riddle; let us hear it."
Yahweh's angel came, and sat under the oak which was in Ophrah, that belonged to Joash the Abiezrite. His son Gideon was beating out wheat in the wine press, to hide it from the Midianites.
"It grieves me that I have set up Saul to be to reign; for he hath turned back from following me, and hath not performed my commandments." Samuel was wroth; and he cried unto Yahweh all night.
After this he fell in love with a woman in the wadi of Sorek, and her name was Delilah.
And to whom did he swear they would not enter into his rest, except they that were disobedient?
God chose new leaders, then war was at the gates; a small shield or a spear was not seen among forty thousand in Israel.
Only let ye worthy of the Good The of Christ, that, whether I come and see thee, neither am absent, I may hear of thy state, that ye stand firm in one spirit, with one soul striving for the faith of the Good News;
And he brought down the people to the water; and Yahweh said unto Gideon, "Everyone that laps of the water with his tongue, as a dog laps, ye shall set him by himself: likewise every one that bow down upon his knees unto drink."
And there was no lacking unto them, neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, neither spoil, nor any thing that they had brought unto them: David recovered all.
whither a forerunner for us did enter -- Jesus, after the commandment of Melchisedek chief priest having become -- unto the age.
Every one that was in distress, every one that was debtors, and every one that was discontented, gathered themselves unto him; and he began to captain over them. There were with him about four hundred men.
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem; and the men of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech
Let us hold fast the profession of our faith apart from wavering; (for he is faithful that promised;)
Now Haber the Cinite had some time before departed from the rest of the Cinites his brethren the sons of Hobab, the kinsman of Moses: and had pitched his tent unto the valley which is called Sellnim, and was nigh Cedes.
Then shalt thou cry out by reason of thy king whom thou hast taken for yourselves: but Jehovah will not answer thee in that day.
Then Saul said, Come here, and give me the burnt-offering and the peace-offerings. And he made a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
And the two wives of David have been taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail wife of Nabal the Carmelite;
Therefore, we also having so great a cloud of witnesses set around us, every weight having put off, and the closely besetting sin, through endurance shall we run the contest that is set before us,
for the law doth appoint men chief priests, having infirmity, but the word of the oath that after the law the Son -- unto the age having been perfected.
And he said unto him, We are on our way from Beth-lehem-judah unto the uttermost parts of the hill-country of Ephraim; I came from thence and went to Beth-lehem-judah: now I am on my way and return to my house, and no man will bring me into his house.
and in this again, If they shall enter into my rest.
And far from me be this have sinned against Jehovah, that I should cease to pray for you, and I will teach you good and right way.
And again, when he is sending his only begotten Son into the world, he saith, Let all the angels of God worship him.
And it came to pass, that, as soon as he had made an end of offering the burnt sacrifice behold, Samuel came; and Saul went out to meet him, that he might salute him.
But solid food is for men fullgrown, even for them that fell are corrected by gain to see what is good and what is evil.
And the children of Israel set forward against the children of Benjamin the second day.
For men indeed swear by a greater, and with them the oath is a term unto all matters dispute, as making sure.
David's men said unto him, "Behold, the day of which Yahweh said unto thee, 'Behold, I will deliver thy enemy into thy hand, and ye shall do unto him as it shall seem good to you.'" Then David arose, and cut off the skirt of Saul's garment nothing.
all of the valiant men set forth and went all night, and took the corpse of Saul and the corpses of his sons from the wall of Beth Shan, and they came to Jabesh and burned them there.
And the priest gave him holy ; for there was no bread there but the shew-loaves that were purchased from before Jehovah, put on hot bread in the day that they were taken away.
Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on the other of the mountain: and David hurried to escape for fear of Saul; for Saul and his men surrounded David and his men to take them.
While Saul was yet speaking unto the priest, the tumult in the camp of the Philistines spread more and more, so Saul said unto the priest, "Withdraw thy hand!"
That descendants of Benjamin heard that the Israelites were gone up unto Mizpah.) And the Israelites said, "Tell us, how did this evil deed occur?"
I appeal unto Euodia and I appeal unto Syntyche to be in covenant in Jehovah.
For our commonwealth exists in heaven, from which also we eagerly await a savior, the Lord Jesus Christ,
But into the second, the high priest alone, once a old: not without blood, which he offereth for his own, and the people's ignorance:
And she saith unto him, `How dost thou say, I have chosen thee, and thy heart is not with me? these three times thou hast played upon me, and hast not declared unto me thy great power .' wherein
For our citizenship is in the heavens, whence also a Saviour we await -- the Lord Jesus Christ --
The lad therefore came to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot: and Jonathan cried after the lad, and said, Behold the arrow is there also beyond thee.
And thou shalt hear what they cry; and afterward shall thine hands be strengthened to go down unto the host. Then went he down with Phurah his servant unto the outside of the guard that were in the host.
Then Saul said unto him, "Why didst thou conspire against me, ye and the son of Jesse, when thou gavest unto him bread and a sword, and by inquiring of God for him that he might arise against me to ambush me as hath been done this day?"
And Moab was humbled that day under the hand of Israel: and the land rested fourscore years.
And David passeth over to the other side, and standeth on the top of the hill afar off -- great the place between them;
And Jonathan goeth up upon his hands, and upon his feet, and the bearer of his weapons after him; and they fall before Jonathan and the bearer of his weapons is that killeth after him.
Then Jonathan called out after the lad, "Quick, hurry, do not linger!" And Jonathan's servant collected the arrows and came to his master.
For there was a tabernacle made; the first, wherein was the candlestick, and the table, and the shewbread; which is called the sanctuary.
And he said to David, Thou art right and I am perversely; for thou hast given me back good, but I have given thee evil.
And the men of Ephraim say unto him, `What this thing thou hast done unto us -- not to call for us when thou didst go to battle with Midian?' and they strive with him severely;
And Jephthah said unto the elders of Gilead, Did not ye hatred me, and expel me out of my father's house? And why are ye come unto me now when ye are in distress?
For thou art not come to a mountain that should be touched, and a devouring fire, and a whirlwind, and darkness, and tempest,
And Jonathan said unto David; Come and let us go forth into the field. And when they were both of them gone forth into the field,
And the words were heard that David spoke, and they rehearsed them before Saul; and he sent for him.
Then Jonathan said unto him, To-morrow is the new moon: and it shall be seen that ye be not present, for there shall be none in thy place.
And he said unto her, Stand at the door of the tent, and if he that cometh and saith unto you, Is there any man hither, say, No.
And unto the church of the firstborn, that are written in the heavens, and unto God the judge of all, and to the spirits of the just made perfect,
And he gave the silver back to his mother. And his mother took two hundred shekels of silver, and gave them unto a metal-worker that made a graven image, and a molten image from them: and it was in the house of Micah.
And Deborah said unto Barak, "Get arise, This is the day that Yahweh hath given Sisera into thy hand. Hath Yahweh not gone out before you?" So Barak went out from mount Tabor with ten thousand men following him.
`Afterwards thou dost come unto the hill of God, where the garrison of the Philistines , and it cometh to pass, at thy coming in thither unto the city, that thou hast met a band of prophets coming down from the high place, and before them psaltery, and tabret, and flute, and harp, and they are prophesying;
And the children of Israel set ambushes round about the city of Gabaa:
shall we draw near with a perfect heart, in full assurance of faith, having the heart sprinkled from an evil conscience, and having the body bathed with pure water;
Because thou shalt conceive and bear a son, and no razor shall toucheth his head; for he shall be a Nazarite of God, from his infancy, and from his mother's womb, and he shall begin to deliver Israel from the hand of the Philistines.
But if ye are not able to give me the answer, then ye shall give me thirty linen garments and thirty changes of raiment. And they said unto him, Put thy hard matter and let us see what it cometh to pass.
and he called to the people and to Abner the son of Ner, David said, Have ye not answer to give, Abner? Then Abner said, Who is that cry unto the king?
And he came to the sheepcotes by the way, where was a cave; and Saul went in unto covering foot; and David and his men remained in the sides of the cave.
Then Gideon went in, and prepared a young goat, and with an ephah of flour he made unleavened cakes: he put the food in a basket and the pottage, in which it had been boiled he put in a pot, and he took it out to him under the oak and gave it unto him there.
But the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the words of Jephthah that he had sent him.
And David saith unto him, `Dost thou bring me down unto this troop?' and he saith, `Swear unto me of God -- thou dost not kill me, nor dost thou shut me up into the hand of my lord -- and I bring thee down unto this troop.'
And he said unto his servant, Come, let us go on unto one of these places, sojourn for the night in Gibeah or Ramah.
And Jehovah addeth to call again Samuel, and Samuel riseth and goeth unto Eli, and saith, `Here I, for thou hast called for me;' and he saith, `I have not called, my son, purifications accomplished, back, lie down.'
And I entreat you, brethren, suffer the word of the exhortation, for also through few words I have written unto you.
And there was the appointed sign unto the men of Israel with the ambush -- their and to go up a great volume of smoke out of the city.
The priest said, "Behold, the sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom thou killed in the valley of Elah is here wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod inward. If ye would like to take that, take it; for there is no other except that here." David said, "There is none like me." Give that.
Then said Saul unto his servants that stood about him, Hear now, ye Benjamites: shall the son of Jesse give each one of you fields and vineyards, and make thee all captains of thousands, and captains of hundreds;
Because thou didst not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, and didst not execute his fierce measure, upon Amalek, therefore hath Jehovah done this thing to thee this day.
Then the five men that went to spy out the country of Laish answered, and said unto their brethren, "Do ye know that there is in these houses an ephod, and teraphim, and an engraved image, and a molten image? Now therefore consider what thou hast to do."
And he said unto them: I desire one request of thee: Give me the earlets of thy spoils. For the golden Ismaelites were accustomed to wear earlets.
For they all seek their own, not the things of Jesus Christ.
And when David's servants came to Carmel, to Abigail they said unto her, David hath sent us unto thee to bring you to him as his wife.
And the woman seeth Samuel, and crieth with a loud voice, and the woman speaketh unto Saul, saying, `Why deceived me -- and thou hast thou Saul?'
And Othoniel the son of Cenez, the younger brother of Caleb having taken it, he gave him Axa his daughter to wife.
And it came to pass at the time that Saul saw David going forth against the Philistines, he said unto Abner the captain of the army; Of what family is this young man descended, Abner? And Abner Jehovah: Like as thy soul liveth, O king, For I know not.
Therefore he was obligated to be made like his brethren in all respects, in order that he could become a merciful and faithful high priest in the things relating unto God, in order to make atonement for the sins of the people.
And David said to Saul: Who am I, or what is my life, nor my father's family in Israel, that I should be son in law of the king?
And it came to pass when the judge died, that they turned backward and corrupted themselves, more than their fathers, in following other gods to serve them, and to bow down to them: they ceased not from their own doings, nor from their stubborn way.
Now Jehovah had apprised Samuel one day before Saul came, saying,
And Jephthah said unto them, "I and my people were engaged in great conflict with the Ammonites call them Zamzummim, I called you, and ye did not deliver me from their hand.
and they possess all the border of the Amorite, from Arnon, and unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness, and unto the the Jordan.
And afterward David was pray for cut off Saul's skirt.
and if ye are apart from chastening, whereof all are become partakers, then bastards are ye, and not sons.
And the people said unto Samuel: Who is he that spoken: Shall Saul reign over us? Bring the men and we will kill them.
Her husband arose, and followed her, to speak it was so, unto her, to bring her again, having his servant with him, and a couple of donkeys. She brought him into her father's house; and when the father of the young lady saw him, he rejoiced to meet him.
Then the angel of Jehovah put forth the end of the staff that was in his hand, and touch the flesh and the unleavened bread, and there rose up fire out of the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened bread. And the angel of Jehovah departed out of his sight.
And he saith unto them, `A witness Jehovah against thee; and a witness His anointed this day, that ye have not found anything in my hand;' and they say, `A witness.'
I would go out after it, and strike it down, and rescue the sheep from its mouth. If it rose against me, I would grab it by the beard and strike it down, and kill it.
And had made the women, and all that were there, small and great, captivity; and they had not put any of them not, but had brought them all away.
And Saul came to the city of the Amalekites, and David and set an ambush in the valley.
Thou shalt not take thy servant to be a worthless woman's hand: for my words are come from my hid sorrow and all manner of sickness.
And Samson said, With the jawbone of an ass, a heap, two heaps, With the jawbone of an ass have I slain a thousand men.
So the people sent to Shiloh, that they might bring from thence the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, which dwelleth between the cherubims: and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas were there with the ark of the covenant of God.
And Samuel saw Saul no more until the day of his passion Samuel mourned over Saul; and Jehovah repented that he had made Saul king over Israel.
And I will have mercy upon their iniquity, and I will not keep their iniquity in mind.
Gaal went out before the men of Shechem, and fought with Abimelech.
according as it is righteous for me to think this in behalf of you all, because of my having you in the heart, both in my bonds, and the defence and confirmation of the gospel, all of you being fellow-partakers with me of grace.
again He doth border a certain day, `To-day,' (in David saying, after so long a time,) as it hath been said, `To-day, if His voice ye may hear, ye shall not harden thy hearts,'
For we that have believed do enter into that rest, even as he hath said, "As I swore in my wrath, they shall not enter into my rest"; although the works were finished from the foundation of the world.
And it came to pass, when he saw her, that he rent his clothes, and said, Alas, my daughter! thou hast brought me very down, and thou art one of them that trouble me; for I have opened my mouth unto Jehovah, and I cannot any more.
They shall say, Peace be with thee, and will give thee two cakes of bread, which ye shall take of them.
The bow of the mighty men are broken, and they that stumbled are girded with strength.
They asked him: Speak therefore Scibboleth, which is interpreted, An ear of corn. But he answered, Sibboleth, not being able to express an ear of corn by the same letter. Then presently they brought him and killed him in the very passage of the the Jordan. And there fell at that time of Ephraim two and forty and four thousand.
Now the inhabitants of Beth Shemesh were reaping the wheat harvest in the valley. They lifted their eyes, and saw the ark, and they welcomed it.
And Saul spoken: God do so and so unto me, and add yet more: for thou shalt die, O Jonathan. dying
if anyhow I may attain unto the rising again of the dead.
And so patiently enduring he obtained the promise.
And in the morning the man arose, and opened the door that he might end the journey he had begun: and behold his concubine lay before the door with her hands spread upon the threshold.
and captureth a young man of the men of Succoth, and asketh him; and he describeth unto him the heads of Succoth, and the elders -- seventy and seven men.
That the cruelty done unto the threescore and ten sons of Jerubbaal might come, and their blood be laid upon Abimelech their brother, which slew them; and upon the men of Shechem, which aided him in the killing of his brethren.
If indeed then perfection were by the Levitical priesthood, for the people were their law given unto them in connexion with *it*, what need [was there] yet that a diverse priest should arise according to the commandment of Melchisedec, and not be called after the commandment of Aaron?
For if this had been possible, would there not have been an end of them sacrifices, because the worship would have been made purifying threescore and would have been no more knowing sins?
But in those sacrifices there is a yearly reminder of sins.
And the people cometh in unto the camp, and the elders of Israel say, Jehovah hath smitten us `Why to-day before the Philistines? we take unto us from Shiloh, the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, and it cometh into our midst, and He doth save us out of the hand of our enemies.'
And Manoah said, When thy words then come to pass, what shall be the child's manner and his do?
Now therefore, I pray thee, thou also hearken unto the voice of thine handmaid, and let me set a morsel of bread before thee; and eat, that thou mayest have strength, when thou goest upon thy way.
Yahweh's angel said unto Manoah, detain me, I won't "Though ye eat thy bread. If thou wilt prepare a burnt sacrifice, ye must Yahweh." For Manoah offer it to know that he was didn't Yahweh's angel.
And Gaal spake again, and said, Behold there come people down by the midst of the land, and another company come along by the plain of Meonenim.
And Anna spoken: I beseech thee, my lord, as thy soul liveth, my lord: I am this handmaid that stood before thee here praying unto Jehovah.
Saul went on the one side of the mountain, and David and his men went on the other side of the mount. David was hurrying to escape out of Saul, while Saul and his men were closing in on David and his men to capture them.
And without faith then must be well-pleasing unto him; for it must needs be that whosoever cometh to God to believest that God is, and that he is a rewarder of all them that make a grave, seek for him.
and she maketh him sleep upon her knees, and calleth for a man, and shaveth the seven set his head, and beginneth to afflict him, and his power turneth aside from off him;
And David goeth, and his men, to Keilah, and fighteth with the Philistines, and leadeth away their cattle, and smiteth among them -- a great smiting, and David saveth the inhabitants of Keilah.
And this is an image of the present time; when the offerings which are given are not able to make the heart of the worshipper utterly clean,
And faith is of things hoped for a confidence, of matters not seen a conviction,
And when Gedeon was come to the Jordan, he passed over it with the three hundred men, that were with him: that were so that they could not weary pursue after them that fled.
For he sought for a city that hath foundations; whose the builders, and former is God.
But the angel of Jehovah did no more appear unto Manoah and to unto him: and Manoah knew that he was an angel of the Lord Jehovah.
And all the men of Sichem were gathered together, and all the families of the city of Mello: and they went and made Abimelech king by the oak that stood in Sichem.
he went out into the fields, desolation the vineyards, and treading down the vintage: and singing and dancing they entered into the temple of their god, and in their banquets and flagons thereof, they devoted Abimelech.
Out of Ephraim them that root was in Amalek; After thee was Benjamin among thy peoples. Out of Machir came down governors, and out of Zebulun they that handled the staff of the governor.
The Lord killeth, and maketh alive: he bringeth down to the grave, and bringeth up.
For, lo, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son; and no razor shall come upon his head: for the child shall be a Nazarite unto God from the womb: and he shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
And the God of peace, that brought again from the dead the great pastor of the ram, our Lord Jesus Christ, in the blood of the everlasting covenant,
and ye have forgotten the exhortation that doth speak fully with you as with sons, `My son, be not despising chastening of Jehovah, nor be faint, being reproved by him,
Saul said, I will give her unto him, that she may be a snare unto him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him. Therefore Saul said unto David, "You shall this day be my son-in-law a second time."
Jehovah, the God of Israel, delivered Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they struck them. So Israel possessed all the land of the Amorites, the inhabitants of the land.
Wherefore Saul returned from pursuing after David, and rebelled against the Philistines: therefore they called the name of that place Selahammahlekoth.
Because I will be merciful unto their iniquities, and their sins I will remember no more.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and slew of them thirty men, and took their spoil, and gave the changes of garments unto them that explained the riddle. And his measure, was kindled, and he went up to his father's house.
But the men would not hearken unto him; and the man took his concubine, and brought her forth unto them; and they knew her, and abused her all the night until the morning; and let her go when the morning-dawn arose.
whose end destroy, whose god is the belly, and that speak in their shame, that think about earthly things.
The wise amongst her ladies answer , Yea, she returneth answer within herself,
And what shall I more speak? for the time would fail me to tell of Gedeon, and of Barak, and of Samson, and of Jephthae; of David also, and Samuel, and of the prophets:
These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off, and were persuaded of them, and embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims upon the earth.
Then there was terror in the camp, in the open field, and among all the host of the garrison. Even the raiders trembled. The earth shook, and it became a very great panic.
And he knew Saul that Jehovah was with David; and he was beloved of all Israel.
The three eldest sons of Jesse was gone after Saul to the battle: and the names of his three sons that went to the battle were Eliab, the firstborn, and next to him Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
When they were by the house of Micah, they knew the voice of the young man, the Levite; and they turned in thither, and said unto him, Who brought thee hither? and what doest thou in this ? and what hast thou here?
He also stripped off his clothes and lay prophesied before Samuel. He naked all that day, and all night. Therefore they say, "Is Saul also among the prophets?"
For I know of this very thing, that he that maketh the good work was began in ye will bring it perfect until the day of Jesus Christ:
and Saul addeth to be afraid of the presence of David yet; and Saul is an enemy with David all the days.
And after Abimelech there arose to defend Israel Tola, the son of Puah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar; and he dwelt in Shamir in mount Ephraim.
Then Saul recognized David's voice and said, "Is this thy voice, my son David?" And David said, "It is my voice, my lord the king."
And Saul's servants spake them words in the ears of David. And David said, Seemeth it to thee a light thing to be a king's son in law, seeing I am a poor man, and lightly esteemed?
For every high priest purchased from among men, is ordained for men in things pertaining to God, that he may both gifts and offer sacrifices for sins:
The men did so, and took two milk kine, and tied them unto the cart, and shut up their calves at home.
And Micah said unto him, Dwell with me, and be unto me a father and a priest, and I will give thee ten shekels of silver, by the year, and a suit of apparel, and thy victuals. So the Levite went in.
Then Eli answer and said, Go in peace: and the God of Israel grant thee thy petition that thou hast asked of him.
As they have done from the beginning, from the day that I brought them forth out of Egypt unto this day, turned away from me and worshipped other gods, so now these all act in like manner unto you.
So then rise early in the morning, thee and the servants of thy lord that came with thee! When thou rise early in the morning, and it is light enough for thee, leave.
Go, I pray thee, prepare yet, and know and see his place where his haunt is, and who hath seen him there: for it is told me that he dealeth very subtilly.
When the men of Israel saw that they were in affliction (for the people were distressed), then the people hid themselves in caves, in thickets, in rocks, in tombs, and in pits.
And it cometh to pass, at the coming in of the ark of the covenant of Jehovah unto the camp, that all Israel shout -- a great shout -- and the earth is moved.
And when his armourbearer saw this, to wit, that Saul was dead, he also fell upon his sword, and died with him.
Her father said, "I really that thou detestable her, so I gave her to thy companion. Is not her younger sister with them that she? Please, take her instead."
And Saul and all the people that were with him were called together, and they came unto the battle; and behold, every man's sword was against his fellow, a very great confusion.
Now the Philistines gathered themselves together for war, and gathered themselves together at Socoh in the land of Judah, and encamped between Socoh and Azekah, in Ephes-dammim.
And Samuel said unto Saul: I will not return with thee, because thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah hath rejected thee from being king over Israel.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: I have considered what Amalek did unto Israel, how he set himself against him in the way, when he came up from Egypt.
Then Hannah rose up after eating and drink at Shiloh. (Now Eli the priest was sitting upon his chair by the doorpost of the temple of Yahweh.)
And when Joshua had let the people go, that the children of Israel went every man unto his inheritance to possess the land.
And she bore a son, and called his name Samson. And the child grew, and Jehovah blessed him.
The things which ye received, learned, heard, and saw in me: do these things, and the God of peace shall be with you.
And Jonathan stripped himself of the coat wherewith he was clothed, and gave it unto David, and the rest of his garments, even to his sword, and to his bow, and to his girdle.
So Samuel return after Saul; and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
Let us therefore give diligence to enter into that rest, lest any fall after the same ensample of disobedience.
And after a time he returned to take her, and he turned aside to see the carcase of the lion roareth: and, behold, there was a swarm of bees and honey, in the carcase of the lion.
and Samson's wife becometh his companion's, that his friend.
Shall the men of Keilah deliver me up into his hand? shall Saul fallen, as thy servant hath heard? O Jehovah God of Israel, I beseech thee, tell thy servant. And Jehovah said, He shall fall.
He raises up the poor from the dust. From the ash heap he lifts up the needy, to cause them to sit with excellent people and to cause them to inherit a throne of honor. For the pillars of the earth belong to Yahweh and he hath set the inhabited world upon them.
And the name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam, the daughter of Ahimaaz; and the name of the captain of his host was Abner the son of Ner, Saul's uncle.
Let thy gentleness be known of all men. Jehovah at hand.
And they told David, voice, saying, Behold the Philistines battle against Ceila, and they rob the barns.
therefore now Swear unto me by the Lord, that thou wilt not cut off my seed after me, and that thou wilt not destroy my name out of my father's house.
And the ambush is abiding with her in an inner chamber, and she `Philistines upon thee, saith unto him, Samson;' and he breaketh the withs a thread of tow is broken in its he smelled fire, and his power hath not been known.
And Saul device, "I will give her unto him, that she may be a snare for him and the hand of the Philistines may be against him." So Saul said unto David, "For a second time ye can become my son-in-law today."
She said, "I shall surely go with you. Nevertheless, the journey that thou makest won't be for thy honor; for Yahweh shall sell Sisera into a woman's hand." Deborah arose, and went with Barak to Kedesh.
And he had two wives: the name of the one was Hannah, and the name of the other Peninnah; and Peninnah had children, but Hannah was barren.
They were come unto the land of Zuph when Saul said unto his servant that was with him, Come and let us return; lest my father deliver up the asses, and be anxious about us.
Wherefore I have not sinned against thee, but thou doest me wrong to battle against me: Jehovah the Judge judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
And they arose and came to the house of God, that is, to Silo: and they consulted God, and said, Who shall be in our host the first to go to the battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah answer them: Let Juda be your leader.
And his master said unto him, We will not turning aside hither into the city of a stranger, that is not of the children of Israel; we will pass over to Gibeah.
And Eliab his eldest brother, heard while he spoke unto the men; and Eliab's measure, was kindled against David, and he said, Why art thou come down? and with whom hast thou left them few sheep in the wilderness? For I know thy pride and the naughtiness of thy heart; for thou art come down that thou mightest see the battle.
Then Nahash the Ammonite came up, and encamped against Jabesh Gilead: and all the men of Jabesh said unto Nahash, "Make a covenant with us, and we will serve you."
And the messenger of saith Jehovah unto Manoah, `Of all that I said unto the woman, she shall take heed;
And he said unto them, Jehovah is witness against thee, and his anointed is witness this day, that ye have not found ought in my hand. And they answered, He is the testimony.
And Jehovah said unto him, I will surely be with thee; and thou shalt smite Midian as one man.
having confidence of this very thing, that he that hath begun in thee a good work shall perfect it unto Jesus Christ's day:
And David's young men came, and spoke to Nabal according to all them words in the name of David, and ceased.
And he said, They were my brethren, the sons of my mother. Jehovah liveth, if ye had saved them alive, I would not slay thee.
Then David came to the two hundred men that had been too exhausted to follow David; they had left them behind at the Wadi Besor. They went out to meet David and to meet the people that were with him. David came near to the people, and asked them how they were doing.
Now Eli was very old, and heard all that his sons did unto all Israel; and how they lay with the women that assembled at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
Moreover his mother made him a little garment; and brought it unto him from year to year; when she came up with her husband to offer the yearly sacrifice.
And Jehovah cometh, and stationeth Himself, and calleth as time by time, `Samuel, Samuel;' and Samuel saith, `Speak, for Thy servant if hearing.'
But we have dry grass and food for our asses, and bread and wine for me, and for the woman, and for the young man with us: we have no need of nothing.
Then Saul being angry against Jonathan said unto him: Thou son of a woman that is the ravisher of a man, do not I know that thou lovest the son of Isai unto thy own confusion and to the confusion of thy mother? shameless
And Saul said unto Jonathan Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan told him, and said, With the end of the staff which is in my hand I tasted a little honey, behold, I must die!
Now therefore, my lord, as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, seeing Jehovah hath withholden thee from coming to shed blood, and from avenging thyself with thine own hand, therefore let thine enemies, and they that seek evil unto my lord, be as Nabal.
And there went forth a man baseborn from the camp of the Philistines called Goliath, of Geth, whose height was six cubits and a span:
And by how much [it was] not without the swearing of an oath,
And he divideth the three hundred men three detachments, and putteth trumpets into the hand of all of them, and empty pitchers, and within the lamps pitchers.
If it went by the land of Israel to Beth-shemesh, then this great evil is his work; but if not, then we may know that the evil was not his doeth not, but was the working of chance.
And they took to wives the daughters of these nations and gave their daughters unto their sons, and became servants to their gods.
And the people take the provision in their hand, and their trumpets, and every man of Israel he hath sent away, each unto his tents. and on the three hundred men he hath kept hold, and the camp of Midian hath been by him at the nether part of the valley.
So when he had turned his back to go from Samuel, God gave unto him another heart, and all these things came to pass that day.
Warfare was severe against the Philistines all the days of Saul. when Saul saw whosoever was a mighty warrior or any brave man, he conscripted him into his service.
That two immutable things, in which it was impossible for God to lie, we might have a strong consolation, that are fled for refuge to lay hold upon the hope set before us:
that this shall be no stumbling-block unto thee, nor offence of heart for my lord, either that thou hast shed blood without cause, or that my lord hath avenged himself. And when Jehovah shall deal well with my lord, then remember thy handmaid.
Then all the corrupt and useless men among the men that went with David reacted and said, "Because they did not go with us, we will not give them anything of the plunder which we recovered, except each man will spoil his own wife, and children. They must bring them along and go!"
They gave Hebron unto Caleb just as Moses said, and he drove out the three sons of Anak from thence.
The same night Jehovah said unto him, Arise, and go down now against their host, for I have delivered them into your hand.
He had thirty sons. He gave his thirty daughters away in marriage without his clan and brought in from without thirty young women for his sons. He judged Israel seven years.
And the men of Israel were called together out of Naphtali, and out of Asher, and out of all Manasseh, and pursued after Midian.
And as they went on the ascent of the city, they saw some virgins going out to draw and said unto them, Is the seer here?
to whom also Abraham apportioned a tenth of everythingin the first place, his name is translated "king of righteousness," and then also "king of Salem," that is, "king of peace";
concerning whom we have much discourse and of acacia explanation to say, since ye are become dull of hearing,
While it is written, To day if ye shall hear his voice, harden not your heart, as in that provocation.
Now every high priest is given authority to take unto God the things that are given and to make oblations; that it must needs be that this man being them, to have somewhat for an thereof.
and also unto their judges they have not hearkened, but are gone a-whoring after other gods, and bow themselves unto them; they have turned aside haste out of the way which their fathers henceforth bereave to obey the commands of Jehovah -- they have not done so.
For ye need endurance so that, having done the will of God, ye may receive the promise.
So David received from her hand that which she had brought him. And he said unto her, "Go up in peace unto thy house. Behold, I have listened unto him, and have granted thy request."
and being made perfect, he began to the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him;
Why then do ye harden thy heart, as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their own heart? When he had woven wonderfully among them, didn't they let the people go, and they departed?
So Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger, and did eat no flesh the second day of the month; for he was grieved for David, because his father had done him shame.
according to my earnest expectation and hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, and in all always, freedom, as also now Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether through life or through death,
And they took the victuals of the people in their hand, and their trumpets; and all the men of Israel he sent away, every man to his tent, but retained the three hundred men. Now the camp of Midian was beneath him in the valley.
Now it fell on a day, that Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man that bore his armor, "Come, and let us go over to the Philistines' garrison, that is on the other side." But he didn't tell his father.
And Barak saith unto her, `If thou dost go with me, then I have gone; and if thou dost not go with me, I do not go;'
And Samson went down to Timnath, and saw a woman in Timnath of the daughters of the Philistines.
and now what is there under thy hand? five loaves give into my hand, or that which is found.'
But David pursued, he and four hundred men; for two hundred stayed behind, that were so that they faint couldn't pass over the brook Besor.
And they returned unto their brethren in Saraa and Esthaol, that asked them that which they had done? to whom they answered:
therefore Jehovah shall be officers peace, and judge between me and thee, and see, and plead my cause, and do me justice [in delivering me] out of thy hand.
And He smiteth among the men of Beth-Shemesh, for they told thee, the ark of Jehovah, yea, He smiteth among the people seventy men -- fifty chief men; and the people mourn, because Jehovah smote among the people -- a great smiting.
And Saul's servants said these things unto David. And David said, Thinkest thou a small thing to be the king's son-in-law, seeing I am a poor man, of no great name?
So then beloved, as ye have always done that which I say, not only when I am present, but now much more when I am not with thee, give yourselves unto working forth thy salvation with fear in the inward man;
Behold, ye house of Israel, all of thee, give here thy advice and counsel."
And Jehovah sent sudden fear upon Benjamin before Israel; and that day the children of Israel slew five and twenty thousand a hundred men of Benjamin, all of them swordsmen.
And Jehovah discomfited Sisera, and all the chariots, and all the host, with the edge of the sword before Barak; and Sisera alighted from chariot, and fled upon foot.
for indeed the gospel came unto us, even as it did unto them; but the ears of the word did them no good, because they were not joined in faith with the true hear.
And the land rested forty years, and Othoniel the son of Cenez died.
And when they that remained of Benjamin saw this, they fled into the wilderness and made towards the rock that is called Remmon. In that away, also according to those that were straggling and going diverse ways, they slew of them five thousand men. And as they went farther, they yet pursued them, and slew also other two thousand.
saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren; in midst of thy assembly will I sing praises.
But his wife said unto him, "If Yahweh thing pleased to kill us, he wouldn't have received a burnt oblation and a meal-offering at our hand, and he wouldn't he have shown us all these things, nor would he have told us such things as these at this time."
Now faith is substantiating of things hoped for, conviction of things not seen.
And David said unto Saul, Let no man's heart fail because of him: thy servant shall go and battle with this Philistine.
For God is my witness, how my love went out unto you all in the tender mercy of Christ Jesus.
and the land resteth forty years. And Othniel, son of Kenaz, dieth,
And Manasseh hath not occupied Beth-Shean and the cities thereof, and Taanach and the cities thereof, and the inhabitants of Dor and the cities thereof, and the inhabitants of Iblaim and the cities thereof, and the inhabitants of Megiddo and the cities thereof, and the Canaanite, is desirous to dwell in that land;
And Samuel arose and went up from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the people that were found with him, about six hundred men.
Now therefore go unto, proclaim in the ears of the people, saying, Whosoever is fearful and afraid, let him return and depart early from mount Gilead. And there returned of the people twenty and two thousand; and there remained ten thousand.
Hannah prayed, and spoken: "My heart exults in Yahweh! My horn is exalted in Jehovah I My mouth is enlarged over my enemies, because I rejoice in thy salvation.
Samuel called the people together to Yahweh to Mizpah, even
For I thy servant have killed both a lion and a bear: and this shall be uncircumcised Philistine also as one of them. I will go now, and take away the reproach of the people; for that is this uncircumcised Philistine, that hath dared to curse the host of the living God?
And Samuel saith unto him, `Jehovah hath rent the kingdom of Israel from thee to-day, and delivered it into thy neighbor that is better than thou;
Then she said, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson. And awaked out of his sleep, he said, I will go forth as at the other times, shook myself free. But he knew that Jehovah had gone from him.
Gideon had seventy sons conceived from his body, for he had the countries, wife.
When he had set the torches with fire, he let them go into the standing grain, of the Philistines, and burnt up both the shocks and the standing grain, and also the olive groves.
And David was the youngest: and the three eldest were with Saul's host.
seeing that we may not give them our daughters as wives? For the children of Israel had sworn, saying, Cursed be he that giveth a wife to Benjamin.
and the haft also went in after the sickle, and the fat closed upon the blade; for he did not draw the sword out of his belly, and it came out between the loins.
So David received of her hand what she had brought him, and said unto her, Go up in peace to thy house; behold, I have hearkened unto thy voice, and have accepted thy person.
The brook Kishon swept them away, The ancient brook most -- the brook Kishon. Thou dost tread down strength, O my anguish!
And Saul and the men of Israel gathered themselves together and encamped in the valley of Elah and put the battle in array against the Philistines.
and Benjamin turneth back at that time, and they give unto them the women whom they have kept alive of the daughters of Jabesh-Gilead, and they have not found for [all of] them so.
The ambushers hurried, and rushed upon Gibeah: then the ambushers spread forth, and struck all the city with the edge of the sword.
him, indeed, therefore, I hope send, that I may know through the things concerning me -- immediately;
A man that disregards Moses' law dies without compassion at the mouth of two or three witnesses.
Now when Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled to David to Keilah, he went down with an ephod in his hand.
Both of them revealed themselves to the garrison of the Philistines; and the Philistines said, "Behold, the Hebrews are coming out of the clefts where they had hidden themselves!"
And Jehovah was with Judah; and he took possession of the hill-country, for he did not dispossess the inhabitants of the valley, because they had chariots of iron.
And when he came to a troop, the Philistines came out, assembly him with loud cries; then the Spirit of Jehovah came rushing upon him, and the cords upon his branches became as that which ye have burned with fire, and the bands came fell off his hands.
`And if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah -- then ye have provoked the mouth of Jehovah, and the hand of Jehovah hath been against thee, and against thy fathers.
Saul and Jonathan his son, and the people that were present with them, stayed in Geba of Benjamin but the Philistines encamped in Michmash.
When David and his men came to the city, behold, it was burned with fire; and their wives, their sons, and their daughters were taken captive.
And the sons of Israel rise in the morning, and encamp against Gibeah,
Receive him therefore in Jehovah with all gladness; and hold such in reputation:
And Jephthah gathered together all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim: and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because they said, Ye, Gilead, ye are fugitives of Ephraim in the midst of Ephraim, in the midst of Manasseh.
And there was a man at Maon, whose business was at Carmel; and the man was mighty, and he had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats; and he was shearing his sheep at Carmel.
And his father went down unto the woman, and Samson made there glad: for so used the young men to be exercised therewith.
And his father and his mother said unto him, Is there no woman among the daughters of thy kindred nor among all my people, that thou hast to go for thy wife, to the Philistines, that are without circumcision? But Samson said unto his father, Rise her for me, for she is acceptable to me.
Ye shall not cast away therefore thy boldness, which hath great recompense of vengeance,
Then David said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, tidings hath been given unto thy servant that it is Saul's face to come to Keilah and destroy cities because of me.
and Samuel saith, `Gather all Israel to Mizpeh, and I pray for thou unto Jehovah.'
then he hath said, "Behold, I am come to do thy will." He taketh away the first in order to establish the second,
The Philistines brought God's ark, and brought it into the house of Dagon, and set it by Dagon.
He said unto his men, "Yahweh forbid that I should do this thing unto my lord, Yahweh's anointed, to their ponds out my hand upon him, since he is Yahweh's anointed."
Then Samuel went up from Gilgal and the rest of the people went up after Saul against the men of war; and they came from Gilgal to Gibeah in the land of Benjamin: and Saul took the number of the people that were with him, about six hundred men.
Be not cares; but in all with prayer and praise put thy am before God.
Neither by the blood of goats, or of calves, but by his own blood, entered once into the holies, having obtained eternal redemption.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil again in the sight of Jehovah: that strengthened against them Eglon king of Moab: because they did that which was evil in his sight.
The men that went not die were struck with the tumors, so that the cry of the city for help went up to heaven.
So they turned and departed, and put the little ones, and the cattle and the chariot before them.
And there was no deliverer, for it was far from Sidon, and they had nothing to do with man; and it in the valley that is by Beth-rehob. And they built the city and dwelt therein.
David said to Abishai, "Don't destroy him; for who can plain out his hand against Yahweh's anointed, and be guiltless?"
She shall wash nothing that cometh from the vine for her food, and let her drink no wine nor strong drink or anything that is defiled; let her observe to do all I have given her voice.
And the lords of the Philistines marched with their hundreds, and their thousands: but David and his men were in the rear with Achis.
and shall eat the best of thy fields and thy vineyards and thy olive trees and will give them to his servants.
So the Philistines took him, and put forth his eyes; then they brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with bands of brass, put him to work grinding in the house of bondage.
Samson's wife wept before him, and said, "You just hatred me, and told a don't love me. You've riddle unto the children of my people, and told it to haven't me." He said unto her, haven't "Behold, I told my father or my mother, so why should I tell you?"
And when his armor bearer saw that Saul was dead, he also fell upon his sword, and died with him.
They said therefore unto him, Go say Shibboleth; and he said Sibboleth, and could not speak unto it ought; then they brought him and slew him at the crossing-places of the Jordan: and at that time two thousand Ephraimites were put to death.
But a certain fearful seeking of judgment and indignation, which shall devour the fiery adversaries.
And after the second veil, the tabernacle, which is called the holy of holies:
David therefore sent forth spies, and understood that Saul was come in very deed.
And the woman came and told her husband, saying, "A man of God came unto me, and his appearance was like the appearance of an angel of God, very awesome. I have not ask him from where he came, and he did not tell me his name.
and he sent messengers to Abimelech craftily, saying, Behold, Gaal the son of Ebed and his brethren are come to Shechem, and behold, they shut up the city against thee;
For every high priest is ordained to offer gifts and sacrifices: wherefore it is of necessity that this man have somewhat also to offer.
And David fled from Naioth in Ramah, and came to Jonathan and said, What have I done? What is my trespass? and my sin against thy father that he would swallow after my life?
Oh that this people were in my command! Then I would remove Abimelech and I would have said, 'Increase thine army and come out!'"
And he called unto him Zabulon and Nepbtali, and went up with ten thousand valiant men, having Debbora in his throng.
And Achish said, Whither have ye made a way to day? And David said, Against the south of Judah, and against the south of the Jerahmeelites, and against the south of the Kenites.
Jephthah said unto them, "I and my people were at great strife with the children of Ammon; and when I called you, ye didn't save me out of their hand.
for he was yet in the loins of the father when Melchisedek met him.
Then the Philistines seized upon him, and forthwith plucked out his eyes, and led him bound in fetters, to Gaza, and shut him up in ward made him grind.
And again he saith, I will put my refuge in him. And again, Behold, I am hither, and the children which God hath given unto me.
And the Levites took down the ark of God, and the little box that was at the side of it, wherein were the vessels of gold, and they put them upon the great stone. The men offer also of Bethsames holocausts and sacrificed victims that day unto Jehovah.
When Saul realized that Yahweh was with David and his own daughter Michal beloved him,
And David recovered all that the Amalekite had taken: and David recovered his two wives with thee.
and he thirsteth exceedingly, and calleth unto Jehovah, and saith, `Thou -- Thou hast given by the hand of Thy servant this great salvation; And now, I die with thirst, and have fallen into the hand of the uncircumcised.'
So Samuel did that which Yahweh spoken. He came to Bethlehem, and the elders of the city came trembling to meet him. And they said, "Have ye come in peace?"
Wo unto us, that doth deliver us out of the hand of these honourable gods? these the gods that are smiting the Egyptians with every plague in the wilderness.
Now therefore deliver up the men, the base fellows, that are in Gibeah, that we may slay them, and put away the evil from Israel." But Benjamin, would not listen unto the voice of their brethren the children of Israel.
And David was the youngest; and the three eldest had followed Saul.
And Thou, Jehovah, in the beginning hast laid the foundation of the earth; and the heavens are the works of thine hand:
Then Ehud, put forth his left hand, and took the sword from his right hip, and thrust it into his belly;
And Nahash the Ammonite answer them, On this state will I make a covenant with thee, that I may thrust out all thy right eyes, and lay it for a reproach upon all Israel.
the end of the days he hath spoken unto us by a Son, whom he appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the world,
When thou art departed from me to day, then thou shalt find two men by Rachel's sepulchre in the border of Benjamin, at Zelzah; and they shall say unto thee, The asses which thou wentest to seek are found: and, lo, thy father hath left the charge of the asses, and sorroweth for thee, saying, What shall I do for my son?
So also Christ glorified not himself to be made a high priest; but he that said unto him, Thou art my Son, to day have I begotten thee.
Then Jonathan called for David and told all these things. And Jonathan chose David Saul, that kept him by his side, as of old.
Of the angels he saith, "Who maketh his angels winds, and his servants a flame of fire."
And she fastened it with the pin, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson! And he awoke out of sleep and tore out the pin of the beam, and the web.
And Samson said unto them, If ye deed thus, for a certainty I will avenge myself upon thee, and then I will cease.
And because she nagged him day after day with her words, and pestered him, his soul grew impatient to the tip of death.
The Israelites did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and they served the Baalim.
But Nahash the Ammonite said unto them, "On this state I will make a treaty with thee, by gouging out the right eye of each of thee, that I can make it a disgrace for all Israel."
And the sons of Benjamin see that they have been smitten -- and the men of Israel give place to Benjamin, for they have trusted unto the ambush which they had set against Gibeah,
And Joshua sent the people away, and the children of Israel went, every man to his inheritance, to take the land for themselves.
But David abode in the desert in strong holds, and he remained in a mountain of the desert of Ziph, in a woody hill. And Saul sought him always: but Jehovah delivered him not into his hand.
But the hand of Jehovah was heavy upon the inhabitants of Ashdod, and he smote them throughout all the country of Ashdod.
As faith Jacob, as he was dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph, and worshiped, leaning upon the top of his staff.
And Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on the other of the mountain: and David made haste to escape out of Saul; and Saul and his men sought to surround David and his men to take them.
And Eli answereth and saith, `Go in peace, and the God of Israel doth give thy petition which thou hast asked of Him.'
On the next day the people rose early, and they built there an altar sacrificed and burnt sacrifices and fellowship sacrifices.
For if the blood of goats and bulls, and a heifer's sprinkling the ashes defiled, sanctifies for the purity of the flesh,
whose voice shook the earth therefore but now he hath promised, saying, "Yet once more I will shake not only the earth, but also the heavens."
Jonathan said unto David, "Go in peace, because we have sworn, both of us, an oath in the name of Jehovah, saying, "Yahweh shall be between me and thee, and between my abundantly in the earth, and thy seed forever." And he arose, and left hand, and Jonathan entered into the city.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he said, Behold this nation hath made void my covenant, which I had made with their fathers, and hath despised to hearken unto my voice:
The Sidonians also, and Amalek and Maon oppressed you, and ye cried unto me, and I saved you out of their hand.
The staff of his spear was as long as a cloth-worker's rod, and its head was of six hundred shekels' weight of iron: and one went before him with his shield.
[And it was told] the Gazathites, saying, Samson is come hither. And they surrounded , and laid wait for him all night at the gate of the city, and kept silence; all the night, saying, In the morning light we will kill him.
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and set themselves in array against Gibeah, as at the other times.
There is none holy as Jehovah, for there is no any God besides thee: there is no rock as our God.
And there came an angel of Jehovah, and sat under an oak which was in Ophrah, that pertained unto Joash the Abiezrite: and his son Gideon threshed wheat by the winepress, to hide it from the Midianites.
And Samuel saith unto Jesse, `Are the young men finished?' and he saith, `Yet hath been left the youngest; and lo, he delighteth himself among the flock;' and Samuel saith unto Jesse, `Send and take him; for we do not one by one, round until his coming in hither.'
And Jonathan saith unto David, `Jehovah, God of Israel -- when I seek my father, about time to-morrow the third , and lo, good towards David, and I do not then send unto thee, and have drawn thine ear --
Ye did subject all things unto his feet. For in making man the ruler over all things, God put not anything without his power; though we do not all things under him now.
And the messenger answer and said, Israel is fled before the Philistines, and there hath been also a great slaughter among the people, and thy two sons also, Hophni and Phinehas are dead, and the ark of God is taken.
Now when she came unto him, that she moved him a field from her father: and she alighted from off her ass; and Caleb said unto her, What is it?
Now when David and his men came to Ziklag, on the third day, the Amalekite had fought against the South, and upon Ziklag, and had smitten Ziklag, and put it on fire;
(Now all the inhabitants of the land used to enter into the forest, for there was honey upon the surface of the ground.)
But his wife said unto him, If Jehovah was counsellors of our death, he would not have taken our burnt-offering and our meal-offering, or have given us such charge concerning the child.
Now therefore thy king is here, whom thou hast chosen and desired: Behold Jehovah hath given you a king.
They answer and said unto them: He is: behold he is before you, make haste now! for he came to day into the city, for there is a sacrifice of the people to day in the high place.
And the day following the people went out into the field. And it was told Abimelech.
He sent it to them that were in Bethel, to them that were in Ramoth of the South, to them that were in Jattir,
as saith the simile of the ancients, From the wicked goeth out wickedness, and my hand is not upon thee.
Now I want thee to know, brethren, that my circumstances have happened instead for the progress of the gospel,
but the latter out of love, knowing that I am appointed for the defense of the Good News.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and became servants to the Baals;
And the princes of the Philistines bring up to her seven green withs which have not been dried, and she bindeth him with them.
He shall appoint them to him for captains of thousands, and captains of fifties; and he shall assign some to plow his ground, and to reap his harvest, and to make his weapons of war, and the weapons of his chariots.
And David said to Saul: Thy servant kept his father's sheep, and there came a lion, or a bear; and took a ram out of the midst of the flock;
In the which will, we are sanctified by the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once.
Then Saul swore to her by Jehovah, "As Yahweh lives, thou shalt not be punished for this thing."
Are they not all ministering spirits, sent out for service for them that shall inherit saved?
And as Samuel was offering up the burnt offering, the Philistines drew near to battle against Israel: but Jehovah thundered with a great thunder on that day upon the Philistines, and discomfited them; and they were smitten before Israel.
And the five lords of the Philistines saw , and returned to Ekron the same day.
And David said unto Saul, Wherefore thou hearest men's words, saying, Behold, David thy hurt? seeketh
the five lords of the Philistines, all the Canaanite, the Sidonians and the Hivites, that lived upon mount Lebanon, from mount Baal, Hermon unto the entrance of Hamath.
And they gave the city the name of Dan, after Dan their father, who was the son of Israel: though the city had been called Laish at the first.
And Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, having with him three thousand chosen men of Israel, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
One of the servants answer and said, "Look, I have seen a son of Jesse the Bethlehemite that is skillful in playing with a stringed awl, a brave man, a warrior, prudent in speech, and handsome. And Yahweh is with him."
As faith Abel offer unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, whereby he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts: and by it yet having died he speaketh.
And Saul taketh three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and goeth to seek David and his men upon the face of the rocks of the wild goats,
God, who at sundry times and in divers manners spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets,
And he said unto his wife: We shall surely die, because we have seen God.
So they sent messengers to Saul's city Gibeah, and these told the people: and all the people stood themselves unto them that weep.
so he took the army and divided them into three courses, and he laid an ambush in the field. And he saw the people were going out of the city, and he arose against them, and killed them.
and David saith unto Saul, `Let no man's heart fall because of him, hath thy servant doth go, and fought with this Philistine.'
Obey thy leaders and submit unto them, for they keep thy soul as they that will give an sakes that they can do this with joy and not with groaning, for this should be unprofitable for you.
Now the name of his firstborn was Joel: and the name of his second, Abiah: they judged Beersheba.
David saw that Saul had come out to seek his life. David was in the wilderness of Ziph; in the wood.
Therefore Saul sent messengers to Jesse, and said, "Send me David thy son, that is with the sheep."
And she said unto him, How canst thou say, I love thee, when thine heart is not with me? thou hast mocked me these three times, and hast not told me thy great strength lieth. wherein
And the Philistine said unto David, Am I a dog, that ye come out to me with staves? And the Philistine curse David by all his gods.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Behold, I do a thing in Israel, at which both the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle.
The Sidonians also, and the Amalekites, and David and the Maonites, oppressed thee; and thou cried unto me, and I saved you out of their hand.
Thou shalt not take away thy kindness from my house for ever, when Jehovah shall be rooted out the enemies of David, every one of them from the earth, shall he make atonement Jonathan from his house, and Jehovah require it at the hand of David's enemies.
And the descendants of Benjamin were gathered from the cities to Gibeah go forth to battle against the Israelites.
But six hundred turned and fled toward the wilderness, to the rock of Rimmon, and they remained at the rock of Rimmon for four months.
And he maketh a prey, and smiteth Amalek, and delivereth Israel out of the hand of its spoiler.
And Saul called whole assembly together to battle, to go down to Keilah, to besiege David and his men.
Now therefore gather up by night, thou and thy people, and watch in the field secretly:
He inquired of Yahweh for him, gave him food, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine."
Holocausts for sin did not please thee.
And Saul said unto his uncle, He told us for certain that the asses were found. But of the matter of the kingdom, whereof Samuel had spoken, he told him not.
And Deborah saith unto Barak, `Rise, for this the day in which Jehovah hath given Sisera into thy hand; hath not gone out before Jehovah thee?' And Barak goeth down from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
Then all the children of Israel, and all the people went up, and came unto the house of God, and wept, and sat there before Jehovah, and fasted that day until even, and offer burnt sacrifices and peace sacrifice before Jehovah.
She should not eat of anything that cometh from the vine, nor drink wine nor strong drink, or eat anything defiled; she should do all that I commanded."
And Jerubbaal (he Gideon) riseth early, and all the people that with him, and they encamp by the well of Harod, and the camp of Midian hath been on the south of him, upon the height of Moreh, in the valley.
As Jehovah liveth Who saveth of Israel, if it was done by Jonathan my son, he shall surely die. In this none of the people gainsaid him.
Then Jonathan said, "Far be it from you. For if For I know for certain that my father decided evil should upon thee, would not I have told it to you?"
And his daughter-in-law, Phinehas was with child and near the time that she would give awakened thee: and when she heard that the ark of God had been taken and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, her pangs came upon her suddenly and she bare unto him.
And Saul said, Bring hither unto me the burnt-offering and the peace-offerings. And he offered up the burnt-offering.
How shall we escape if we neglect so great saved? which having begun to be declared by Jehovah, was confirmed unto us by them that heard him.
And my bonds are become manifest in Christ in the whole praetorium, and to the other places -- all,
Saul struck the Amalekites, and David from Havilah, as ye go to Shur; and he sojourned that is before Egypt.
Then Achish called David, and said unto him, Surely, as Jehovah liveth, thou hast been righteous, and thy going out, and thy coming in, with me in the host is good in my sight: for I have not found evil in thee since the day of thy coming unto me unto this day: nevertheless the lords favour thee not.
For when every commandment had been spoken by Moses unto all the people according to the law, he took the blood of the calves and the goats, with water, and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people,
Now consider how great this man was, to whom even Abraham, the patriarch, gave a tenth out of fine plunder.
Who being the brightness of the heavens, And the express image of his person, and upholding all things by the word of his majesty, when he had by himself purged our sins, sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high;
His mother sought out at a window, and howled: and she spoke from the dining upper chamber: Why is his chariot so long in coming back? Why are the feet of his horses so slow?
And when David turneth back from smiting the Philistine, then Abner taketh him, and bringeth him in before Saul, and the head of the Philistine in his hand;
Though some are preaching Christ out of jealousy and factious, and others do it out of a good heart:
And he called unto the young man his hastily armourbearer, and said unto him, Draw thy sword, and slay me, that men say not of me, A women slew him. And his young man thrust him up, and he died.
And he died, and was buried in Zabulon.
As soon as Gideon was dead, the children of Israel turned again, and played the prostitute following the Baalim, and made Baal, Berith their god.
And the measure, of Yahweh burned against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the Philistines, and the Ammonites.
And they gave Hebron unto Caleb as Moses had said, that destroyed out of it the three sons of Enac.
and not only while I am alive dost thou do with me the kindness of Jehovah, and I die not,
Let brotherly love continue.
And the men of Israel had made a turning about, and the men of Benjamin were dismayed, for they perceived that evil were consumed them.
Then Eli called Samuel and said, "Samuel, my son!" And he said, "Here I am."
Therefore I was displeased with that generation, and said, 'They always err in their heart, but they know my ways;' didn't
And it cometh to pass, at that time, that Eli is lying down in his place, and his eyes have begun to be dim -- he cannot see.
And the word of Jehovah came unto Samuel, voice, saying,
There was a certain man from Ramathaim Zophim, from the hill country of Ephraim, whose name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephraimite.
And he shall take thy harvest, and thy vineyards, and thy oliveyards, even the best of them, and give them unto his servants.
So then be careful and do not drink wine nor strong drink, neither eat anything unclean,
Now unbelieving it is impossible unto please him, for the one that believe that he must approaches God exists and is a rewarder of them that seek him.
Here I am. Witness against me before Jehovah, and before his anointed. Whose ox have I taken? Whose donkey have I taken? Whom have I defrauded? Whom have I oppressed? Of whose hand have I taken a ransom to make me blind my eyes? I will restore it to you."
And Samson went down to Timnathah, and saw a woman in Timnathah of the daughters of the Philistines.
and Jonathan calleth after the youth, `Speed, haste, not;' and stand Jonathan's youth gathereth the arrows, and cometh unto his lord.
They said, "If thou art sending the ark of the God of Israel away, thou must not send it away empty, but by all means return it with a guilt thereof. And thou shalt be healed and it shall be known unto you why his hand is not turned aside from you."
And David said to Achish, Surely thou shalt know what can do. And thy servant Achish said unto David, Therefore will I make thee keeper of mine, head for ever.
Now Gideon had seventy sons, his own their seed, for he had the countries, wife.
Gideon said, "Well therefore, when Yahweh giveth Zebah and Zalmunna into my hand, I will trample thy flesh with the wilderness." of the briers and thorns
One of the sons of Abimelech the son of Ahitub, called Abiathar, escaped, and fled after David.
For yet a very little while he that cometh shall come, and shall not delay.
When the ark of Yahweh's covenant came into the camp, all Israel shouted with a great shout, so that the earth rang again.
And when they were come to the land of Zuph, Saul said unto his servant that was with him, Come, and let us leave return; lest my father had respect unto the asses, and take anxious for us.
And the day cometh that Jonathan son of Saul saith unto the young man bearing his weapons, `Come, and we pass over unto the station of the Philistines, that on the other side of this;' and to his father he hath not declared .
I will place a fleece of wool upon the threshing story. If there be dew upon the fleece only, and all of the ground is dried up, I will know that ye shall deliver Israel by my hand, just as thou hast said."
David was told, "Behold, the Philistines fight against Keilah, and are robbing the threshing floors."
And David's men said unto him, Even here in Judah we are afraid; how much more then if we go to Keilah against the hosts of the Philistines?
but I have thought it necessary to send unto you Epaphroditus, my brother and fellow-workman and fellow-soldier, but thy messenger and minister unto my necessities,
Then the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they answered, Samson, the son in law of the Timnite, because he had taken his wife, and given her unto his companion. And the Philistines came up, and burnt her and her father with fire.
And it cometh to pass in the morning, when the wine is gone forth out of Nabal, that his wife declareth unto him these things, and his heart dieth within him, and he hath been as a stone.
choosing rather to suffer affliction along with the house of God than to have temporary will of sin;
For when God made promise unto Abraham, because he could swear by no greater, he sware by himself,
How much more, if haply the people had eaten to day of the spoil of their enemies which they found? for had there not been now more and more slaughter among the Philistines?
Now where remission of these is, there is no more oblation for sin.
And all the people went to Galgal, and there they made Saul king before Jehovah in Galgal, and they sacrificed there victims of peace before Jehovah. And there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced exceedingly.
David said unto him, "Will thou bring me down unto this troop?" He said, "Swear unto me of God that thou wilt not kill me, and not deliver me up into the hand of my master, and I will bring thee down unto this troop."
yea, he putteth his life in his hand, and Jehovah smiteth the Philistine, and worketh a great salvation for all Israel; dost thou hast seen and rejoice, and why dost thou have sinned against innocent blood, to put David to death for nought?'
Saul also and his men went to seek him. And they told David; wherefore he came down into a flint, and abode in the wilderness of Maon. And when Saul heard that, he pursued after David in the wilderness of Maon.
And Samuel answereth Saul and saith, `I the seer, go up before me into the high place, and ye have eaten with me to-day, and I have sent thee away in the morning, and all that in thy heart I declare unto thee.
And three bands of men came out from the Philistines to make a up, neither fight; one girdle went by the way that goeth down to Ophrah, into the land of Shual:
But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labour: yet what I shall choose I wot not.
Speak no more words sins; Let not rebellious words come out of thy mouths: for Jehovah is a God of knowledge, by him acts are judged.
Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ; To all the saints in Christ Jesus that are at Philippi, with the officers, and servants:
And to whom sware he that they should not enter into his rest, but to them that believed not?
And Saul saith unto Jehovah, God of Israel, `Give perfection;' and Jonathan and Saul are captured, and the people went out.
And they immolated a calf, and offer the child to Heli.
And blessed be your discretion, and blessed be ye that have prevented me this day from bloodguilt and from delivering myself in mine own hand.
Saul answered, "Am I not a Benjamite, of the little ones of the tribes of Israel? And my house the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? Why then do ye speak unto me as this?"
For every high priest taken from amongst men is established for men in things relating unto God, that he may both gifts and offer sacrifices for sins;
having made so much better than the angels, as he hath by inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they.
And Saul caught up a spear to strike him. And Jonathan understood that it was determined by his father to kill David.
But over the Ashurites, dwelt among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land, without drive them out.
According to my strong hope and brought in nothing shall I be put to shame, that with all boldness, as at all times, so now will Christ be glorified in my body, by life nor by death.
Of the doctrine of baptisms, and imposition of hands, and of the resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment.
And David went up from thence, and dwelt in strong holds at Engedi.
And the land had rest forty years, and Othniel, the son of Kenaz, died.
One of its place, answered, "Who is their father?" Therefore it became a proverb, "Is Saul also among the prophets?"
Behold, may ye not refuse him that is speaking, for if they did not escape that refused him that upon earth was speaking divinely -- much less we that do turning away from him that from heaven,
For the law appoints men as high priests that have weakness, but the bill of the vow, after the law, appoints a Son, that is made perfect forever.
And they forsook Jehovah the God of their fathers, who had brought them up out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods of the gods of the peoples that were round about them, and bowed themselves unto them, and provoked Jehovah to anger.
So David said unto Ahimelech the priest, "The king charged me with a matter and said unto me, 'No one must know anything about this matter whereon I send thee, with which I have charged thee and the servants.'" So I have arranged to meet with my servants at a certain place.
For a shall concerning the land where there hath been death, for it is not in force while he that made it souls.
and Jehovah selleth them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, that hath reigned in Hazor, and the head of his host Sisera, and he is dwelling in Harosheth of the Goyim;
Where the chariots were dashed together, and the host of the enemies was choked, there let the justices of Jehovah be rehearsed, and his clemency towards the brave men of Israel: then the inhabitants of Jehovah went down to the gates, and obtained the sovereignty.
And Deborah singeth -- also Barak son of Abinoam -- in that day, -- voice, saying,
and blessed thy discretion, and blessed thou in that thou hast restrained me this day from coming in with blood, and to restrain my hand unto myself.
And they said, What one is there of the tribes of Israel that came not up to Mizpeh, unto Jehovah? And, behold, there came none to the camp from Jabeshgilead unto the assembly.
They say unto him, "Please ask counsel of God, that we may know whether our way which we go shall be prosperous."
Thou hast explained unto me this day, that ye have dealt well with me, how Yahweh delivered me into thy hand, and ye did not kill me.
Why should thou harden thy heart as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their heart? Is it not just as when he dealt with them wantonly that they sent them away, and they left side thereof?
and might set every one that through fear of death through the whole of their life were subject to bondage.
Then the five men that went to spy out the country of Laish, said unto their brethren, Knowest thou that in these houses there is an ephod, and family gods, and a graven image, and a molten image? Now therefore ye see what to do.
But call to mind the former days in which having been enlightened, ye endured much conflict of sufferings;
And he took his staff in his hand, and chose him five smooth stones out of the brook, and put them in a shepherd's bag which he had, even in a scrip; and his sling was in his hand; and he drew near unto the Philistine.
and the men that died not were smitten with the hemorrhoids; and the cry of the city went up to heaven.
Then Jonathan said unto David, Whatsoever thy that will I do for thee.
and that every tongue should confess that the Lord Jesus Christ is in the glory of God the Father.
For consider well him that endured so great contradiction from sinners against himself, that ye be not weary, fainting in your ears.
As I have sworn in my wrath; If they shall enter into my rest.
As many, therefore, as perfect -- let us think this, and if anything ye think otherwise, this also shall God reveal unto you,
For Israel had set themselves in array, and the Philistines, that stood against them were prepared.
And when they rose up to go away, his father-in-law, the girl's father, said unto him, Now evening cometh that thou mayest go not this night: behold, the day is almost gone; therefore, I pray you, tarry here, and let thy heart be glad, and to-morrow early, walk again unto thy house.
Saul's uncle said, "Please tell me what Samuel said unto you."
But now he hath attained a more excellent ministry, by as much as he is also mediator of a better covenant which hath been enacted upon better promises.
Then the woman came in, and said unto her husband, A man came unto me, and his appearance was like the appearance of a god, and with great terror; I put no matter to him concerning arose, and he did not give me his name;
And the Levites have brought down the ark of Jehovah, and the coffer which with it, wherein the vessels of gold, and place upon the great stone; and the men of Beth-Shemesh have cause him to ascend burnt-offerings and sacrifice sacrifices in that day unto Jehovah;
and so fearful was the appearance that Moses said, "I am terrified and trembling."
But the righteous shall live by his faith; and if he goeth again, my soul shall have no pleasure in him.
And again, the Israelites did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah I They served the Baalim, the Ashtaroth, the gods of Syria Sidon Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and Philistines; they abandoned Yahweh and did not serve him.
And the people, the men of Israel, strengthen themselves, and add to set the battle in array in the place where they arranged themselves in the first day.
And they called the name of that place Bochim; and they sacrificed there unto Jehovah.
And Samuel saith, `And why dost thou ask me, and Jehovah hath turned aside from thee, and is thine enemy?
And it came to pass when Samuel was old, that he appointed his sons to judge over Israel.
And Jair died and was buried in Kamon.
And it was told Saul, and he sent other messengers, and they also prophesied. And Saul sent messengers again the third time, and they also prophesied.
And all Midian, and Amalek and the sons of the east have been gathered together, and pass over, and encamp in the valley of Jezreel,
And they went out into their fields and gathered in the fruit of their vineyard, thou and when the grapes had been oppressed, they made a holy feast and went into the house of their god, and over their eat and drink, and they were cursing Abimelech.
And he said unto his men, Jehovah forbid that I should do this thing unto my master the Lord's anointed, to their ponds forth mine, hand against him, seeing he is the anointed of Jehovah.
And Saul's servants spoke these words unto David privily. But David said, "Is it insignificant in thy sight to become the son-in-law of the king, as I am a poor and lightly esteemed man?"
Jephthah said unto the elders, "Did ye not shun me, and drive me out from the house of my father? Why dost thou come to me now when thou hast trouble?"
and a helmet of brass upon his head, and a scaled coat of mail he clothed, and the weight of the coat of mail five thousand pieces of brass,
And Achish answer and said unto David, For I know that thou art acceptable unto me, as an angel of God; nevertheless the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.
Saul was threatened by David yet more, so Saul became a perpetual enemy of David.
Yahweh said unto him, "Peace be unto you! Don't be afraid. Ye shall not die."
And David answered and said, Behold the king's spear: let one of the king's servants come over and fetch it.
Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, being a hundred ten years old.
Now Eli was very old; and he heard from time to time of what his sons were do unto all Israel.
And he said, If I have found favor with thee, give me a sign that it is that thou speakest unto me,
But David fled from Najoth, which is in Ramatha, and came and said unto Jonathan: What have I done? what is my iniquity, and what is my sin against thy father, that he seeketh my life?
But ye have forsaken me, and served other gods; therefore I will save thou hold ye your peace.
Then they killed the ark of Yahweh upon the utility wagon with the container holding the gold mice and the graven images of their tumors.
and the sons of Israel cry unto Jehovah, and Jehovah raiseth the the sons of Israel, and he saveth them -- Othniel, son chief Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother;
For even in Thessalonica thou didst send once and again to my need.
And when they had heard what they are saying, thou shalt be strength to go down against the host. And he went down with his servant Purah to the outermost part of the camp of the armed men.
And Saul, knowing that the voice was David's, said, Is that thy voice, David my son? And David said, It is my voice, O my lord, O king.
When she pressed him daily with her words, and urged him, his soul was troubled to death.
And Saul also went home to Gibeah: and there went with him a great multitude of men, that God had grave:
And David sware unto Saul. And Saul went home; but David and his men gat them up unto the hold.
And when David had heard that Nabal was dead, he said, Blessed be Jehovah, who hath judged the cause of my reproach at the hand of Nabal, and hath kept his servant from evil, and Jehovah hath returned the wickedness of Nabal upon his head. And David sent and treated with Abigail that he might bring her unto himself for a wife.
And the princes of Galaad said unto Jephte: Therefore we are now come unto thee, that thou mayst go with us, and battle against the children of Ammon, and be head over all the inhabitants of Galaad.
And Jehovah the God of Israel gave Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they smote them: and Israel took possession of the whole land of the Amorites, who dwelt in the land.
including Ahijah, the son of Ahitub, Ichabod's brother, the son of Phinehas the son of Eli, the priest of Yahweh in Shiloh, wearing an ephod inward. The people didn't know that Jonathan was gone.
Furthermore, we have had our earthly fathers that disciplined us, and we that feareth God, them. Shall we not much rather subject ourselves unto the Father of spirits, and live?
The men of Israel were to make a purifications accomplished, to pass in battle. And Benjamin had smitten and slew about thirty of the men of Israel, and were saying, Surely they shall fall backward, before us, as in the first battle.
and call the name of the city Dan, by the name of Dan their father, who was born unto Israel; and yet Laish the name of the city at the first.
And to them that were in Hormah, and to them that were in Chorashan, and to them that were in Athach,
Then the king sent to call Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests that were in Nob; and they fell all of the king.
As faith, Noah, oracularly warned concerning things not yet seen, moved with fear, prepared an ark for the saving of his house; whereby he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which according to faith.
For where there is a covenant, there hath to be the death of the man, who built it.
David answer and said unto Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah were the brother of Joab, saying, "Who shall go down with me unto Saul, in the camp?" And Abishai, said, "I shall go down with you."
And when he had brought him, lying behold they were spread upon all the ground, eating and drunkenness, and as it was keeping a festival day, for all the prey, and the spoils which they brought forth out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Juda.
For they all seek their own interests, not them of Jesus Christ.
and to them in Hebron, and to all the places where David himself and his men went about.
and therefore I have sworn to the house of Eli: the iniquity of the house of Eli is not atoned for, by sacrifice, and by offering unto the age.' --
Then Gideon said, Because of this, when Jehovah hath given Zebah and Zalmunna into my hand, I will have ye spread upon a bed of thorns of the wilderness and upon sharp stems, and hast thou cast as grain is crushed on a grain-floor.
And Saul saith, `Bring nigh unto me the burnt-offering, and the peace-offerings;' and he causeth the burnt-offering unto ascend.
And Saul said unto his uncle, He told us plainly that the asses were found. But of the matter of the kingdom, whereof Samuel spake, he told him not.
Then Abigail went to Nabal, and look, he was holding a feast in his house as the feast of the king. Nabal was enjoying himself, and he was very drunk, so she did not tell him a thing, nothing at all, until the light of morning.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, a hundred and ten years old.
And it came to pass, when he made mention of the ark of God, that he fell from off the throne backward by the side of the gate, and his neck brake, and he died: for he was an old man, and heavy. And he had judged Israel forty years.
And they turning aside thither, and come in unto the house of the young man the Levite, the house of Micah, and ask of him of welfare, --
When the trumpet shall sound in my hand; do ye also had smitten the trumpets on every side of the camp.
And Jonathan gave his bow and arrows to the lad, and said unto him, Take these and return to the city.
they said unto him, "Please say Shibboleth," and if he said, "Sibboleth"because he could not pronounce it correctlythey grabbed him, and executed him at the fords of the Jordan. at that time, forty and two thousand from Ephraim fell.
And all Israel were gathered together against the city, as one man, with one mind, and one counsel:
Now these things being thus will, into the first tabernacle the priests enter at all times, services; the accomplishing
But one in a certain place testified, saying, What is man, that thou art mindful of him? Or the son of man, that thou visitest him?
and I will go forth, and stand beside my father in the field where thou art: and shall speak of thee with my father: and see what it is, and tell thee.
And they said unto the messengers that was come, Thus shall ye say unto the men of Jabesh-Gilead: To-morrow ye shall have deliverance when the sun is hot. And the messengers came and informed the men of Jabesh-Gilead; and they were glad.
Remember they that were over thee, and that gave you the word of God; seeing according as their way of life let your faith be as theirs.
Neither did Asher drive out the inhabitants of Accho, nor the inhabitants of Sidon, nor of Ahlab, nor of Achzib, nor of Helbah, nor of Aphik, nor of Rehob:
And he had a son whose name was Saul, a choice and goodly man, and there was not among the children of Israel a goodlier person than he: from his shoulders and upward he appeared above all the people.
Swear now therefore unto me of Jehovah, that thou wilt not cut off my seed after me, and that thou wilt not destroy my name out of my father's house.
And David said to Achish, But what have I done? what hast thou seen in thy servant while I have been with thee unto this day, that I cannot and stand up against them that are now that fight against my lord the king?
Now there was no smith in all the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make themselves swords or spears:
And Jonathan again sware unto David, because Jehovah thy God loved him: for David was as he loveth according to all that his very soul.
The children of the Kenite, and Moses' brother-in-law, went up out of the city of palm trees with the children of Judah into the wilderness of Judah, which is in the south of Arad; and they went and lived with the people.
So all the men of Israel were gathered against the city, knit together as one man.
And his sons henceforth bereave not in his ways: but they turned aside after lucre, and took bribes, and perverted judgment.
Eighteen thousand men of Benjamin fell; all these were mighty men of valor.
And she saith, `Let find favor in thy handmaid thine eyes;' and the woman goeth upon her way, and eateth, and her countenance hath not been for it any more.
And Samuel saith Jehovah unto Saul, `Me did anoint send unto thee for king over His people, over Israel; and now, hearken unto the voice of the words of Jehovah:
Now at this present time men over whom he hath killed hath power take the tenth; but then it was taken by one of whom it is witnessed that he liveth.
And the children of Benjamin that came that day from the cities were twenty-six thousand men that drew sword, besides the people of Gibeah mustering seven hundred of war, that could handle
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon; and Israel said unto him, Send me through thy land unto my place.
And now, I pray thee, let my lord the king hear the words of his servant. If Jehovah have moved thee against me, let him accept an oblation; but if the sons of men, cursed be they before Jehovah; for they have driven me out this day from adhering to the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
and a voice of a trumpet, and a voice of words, which they having heard did entreat that a word should not be added unto them,
yea, these have entered the house of Micah, and take the graven image, the ephod and the teraphim, and the molten image; and the priest saith unto them, `What are ye doing?'
She said, "The glory hath departed from Israel; for God's ark hath been taken."
And the men of Israel go out from Mizpeh, and pursue the Philistines, and smite them unto the place of Beth-Car.
Saul said, "Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and take plunder among them, until the morning light, and let us not leave a man of them." They said, "Do as is good to you." then the priest said, "Let us draw near here to God."
for our God is a consuming fire.
Then said Saul to his servant, Well hastened come, let us go. So they went unto the city which the man of God was.
Asher did not drive out the inhabitants of Acco, Sidon Ahlab, Aczib, Helbah, Aphik, or Rehob,
And the children of Benjamin went forth out of Gibeah, and destroyed to the ground of the Israelites that day two and twenty thousand men.
and so to speak, through Abraham, Levi also, that received tithes, hath been made to pay tithes.
And the princes of the Philistines went forth: and from the beginning of their going forth, David behaved himself more soberly than all the servants of Saul, and his name became very famous.
And thou hast shewn this day what good things thou hast done unto me: how that Jehovah delivered me into thy hand, and thou hast not killed me.
As faith Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter;
Therefore as the countries, and as the stars of the heaven in multitude, and as innumerable as the sand which is by the sea shore, were fathered by one man, and him as good as dead.
And all Israel was exceeding sorry, and repented for the destroying of one tribe out of Israel.
The woman bore a son, and called him Yahweh Samson. The child grew, and blessed him.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I? and what is my life, nor my father's family in Israel, that I should be son in law to the king?
whence not even the first apart from blood hath been initiated,
`And thou hast gone down before me to Gilgal, and lo, I go down unto thee, to cause to ascend burnt-offerings, to sacrifice sacrifices of peace-offerings; seven days thou dost wait until I come in unto thee, and I have made known to thee that which thou dost do.'
And David dwelt with Achish at Gath, he and his men, every man with his household, even David with his two wives also, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelitess, Nabal's wife.
And it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of Nabal, that his wife told him these things; and his heart died within him, so that he was a stone.
But Madian and Amalec, and all the eastern people lay scattered in the valley, as a multitude of locusts: their camels also were innumerable as the sand that lieth in the sea shore.
And Jehovah saved Israel that day; and the battle passed over beyond Beth-Aven.
And Abimelech rose up, and all the people that were with him, by night, and they laid wait against Shechem in four companies.
They would camp against them, and destroy the fruit of the land as far as upon Gaza; they left no increase in Israel, or sheep, bullock, or donkey.
And the hand of the Israelites pressed harder and harder upon Jabin king of Canaan, until they destroyed Jabin king of Canaan.
And a messenger of Jehovah unto Bochim, goeth up from Gilgal
And Josue the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, being a hundred and ten years old,
The child Samuel grew and spread in favor both with Jehovah, and also with men.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, being a hundred and ten years old.
The men of Israel said, "Have thou seen this man that is come up? He hath surely come up to defy Israel. The king shall give great riches unto him that kills him, and will give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel."
And Ephraim did not dispossess the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer but the Canaanites dwelt among them in Gezer.
but I trust in Lord that I myself also shall soon come;
He answer them: They were my brethren, the sons of my mother. As Jehovah liveth, if thou hadst saved them, I would not kill thee.
therefore I said, 'Now the Philistines shall come down against me at Gilgal, and I have not yet implored the face of Yahweh.' So I cast myself and offer the burnt offering."
So Jehovah sent Jerubbaal and Barak and Jephthah and Samuel and brought you out of the power of them that were fighting against thee on every side, and made thee.
to whom also a tenth of all did Abraham divide, (first, indeed, being interpreted, `King of righteousness,' and then also, King of Salem which is, King of Peace,)
And Jonathan said unto David, Come and let us go forth into the field. And they went out both of them into the field.
And maketh Manoah entreaty unto Jehovah, and saith, `O, my Lord, the man of God whom Thou didst send, let him come in, I pray thee, again unto us, and direct us what we do unto the youth that is born.'
And every priest standeth daily ministering and offering oftentimes the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins:
For otherwise, would they not have ceased to be offered, because the ones that without fear, having been purified once for all, would no more have any consciousness sins?
For if Jesus had given them to lie down, then would he not afterward have spoken of another day.
the one, indeed, of rivalry the Christ do proclaim, not add unto supposing purely, affliction unto my bonds,
Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honorable, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report; if there be any fornication, and if there be any thanks, think about these things.
In those days there was no king in Israel, but every one did that which the thing was right in himself.
Because he was yet in his father's body when Melchizedek came unto him.
And the people and princes of Gilead said one to another, What man is he that shall begin to battle against the children of Ammon? he shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
For who when he hath found his enemy, shall let him go well away? But Jehovah reward thee for this good turn, for that which thou hast done unto me this day.
For Hannah's prayer came from her heart, and though her lips bare she openeth not his mouth: it seemed unto Eli that she was a drunken man.
Then Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren. And Yahweh's Spirit came mightily upon David from that day forward. And Samuel rose up and went to Ramah.
I went out after him, and smote him, and brought it out of his mouth: and if turned upon me, he came at me, I took him by the hair and smote him, and slew him.
And Midian was subdued before the children of Israel, and they lifted up their heads no more. And the land had rest forty years in the days of Gideon.
The children of Israel served Eglon the king of Moab eighteen years.
He had brass shin armor upon his loins; a brazen javelin between his shoulders.
Women received their dead raised been raised: and others were tortured, not accepting deliverance; that they might obtain a better resurrection:
And a man of that place answer and said, Alas, who is their father? Therefore it became a proverb, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And his daughter-in-law, Phinehas' wife, conceived, near to be delivered; and when she heard the tidings that the ark of God was taken, and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, she bowed herself and travailed; for her pangs came upon her.
And from that day Saul looked with jealousy upon David.
And they said unto him, Be quiet. altogether holdest thy peace and come with us and be our father and priest; is it good for thee to be priest one to man's house or to be priest to a tribe and a house in Israel?
And they slew the Moabites at that time, about ten thousand men, all fat, and all men of valour, and not a man escaped.
And Samson answer her: If I shall be bound with seven cords made of sinews not yet dry, and yet moist, I shall be weak as other men.
And he said, What said Jehovah say unto thee? Thou shalt not hide from me: may God's do so to you, if ye keep from me anything he said unto thee.
David recovered all that the Amalekite had taken; and David rescued his two wives with thee.
Then all the children of Israel brought up armor, and the people gathered themselves together as one man, from Dan to Beer-sheba, and the land of Gilead, before Jehovah at Mizpah.
And the peace of God that surpasses all understanding shall guard your hearts and that ye may abound in Christ Jesus.
So in the day of battle, there was not a sword or a spear found in the hand of all the host that was with Saul and Jonathan but Saul and Jonathan his son had them.
David put his hand in his sack, took a stone, and slung it, and struck the Philistine in his forehead. The stone sank into his forehead, and he fell upon his face to the ground.
And Abimelech goeth unto Thebez, and encampeth against Thebez, and captureth it,
Into thy hand hath God delivered the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; Yea, that which was I able to do be compared unto thee? And their spirit was appeased toward him, when he said that word.
And Saul said unto that Michal wherefore hast thou dealt treacherously with me, and mine enemy go and gather securely, away? And Michal said unto Saul, He said unto me, Let me go, lest I will slay thee.
He said unto his servant, "Come and let us draw near unto one of these places; and we will lodge in Gibeah, or in Ramah."
And when Saul was returned from following the Philistines, they told him: Behold, David is in the desert of Engaddi.
And Jonathan made [a covenant] with the house of David, [saying,] Let Jehovah even require at the hand of David's enemies!
And the people said unto Saul: Shall Jonathan then die, who hath wrought this great salvation in Israel? This must not be. As Jehovah liveth, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground, for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people delivered Jonathan that he should not die.
And Gideon went up by the way for the people that dwell in tents on the east of Nobah and Jogbehah, and smote the host when they had confident.
And the heads of Succoth say, `Is the hand of Zebah and Zalmunna now in thy hand, that we give unto thy host bread?'
And they said, Thou hast not dealt treacherously with us, or ill with us; for thou hast taken nothing from any man.
And he said unto Jether, his firstborn, Arise, slay them! But the youth drew not his sword; for he feared, because he was yet a youth.
And the border of the Amorites, was from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock, and upwards.
then he said, Lo, I come to do thy will. He taketh away the first that he may establish the second:
And the number of them that lapped, with their hand to their mouth, were three hundred men; and all the residue of the people bowed down upon their knees to drink water.
And Saul said, Disperse yourselves among the people, and say unto them, Bring near unto me every man his bullock, and every man his sheep, and slaughter them hither, and eat; and sin not against Jehovah in eating with the blood. And all the assembly brought every man his ox, with him that night, and slaughtered there.
As faith the walls of Jericho fell, having been encircled seven days.
and said thus: Unto life! and thou, peace; and thy house, peace; and all that thou hast -- peace!
And David smote them from the twilight even to the evening of the next day; and there escaped not a man of them, save four hundred young men, that rode upon camels, and fled.
And now behold, the king walks before thee; and I am old and grey-headed; and behold, my sons are with thee; and I have henceforth bereave before thee from my youth up unto this day.
And Saul inquired of Jehovah, but Yahweh did not answer him, not by dreams, nor by the Urim or by the prophets.
And it was so. And he arose early the next day and squeezed the fleece, and he wrung out dew from the fleece, a full drink bowl of water.
`If ye fear Jehovah, and have served him, and hearkened unto His voice, that ye do not provoke the mouth of Jehovah, and ye have been -- both ye and the king that hath reigned over thou -- after Jehovah your God.
Then said the woman, Whom shall I bring up unto thee? And he said, Bring me up Samuel.
And Saul and all Israel heard these words of the Philistine, and they were dismayed and sore afraid.
So both of them sat and ate and drank together, and the father of the young woman said unto the man, "Please, agree to spend the night and enjoy yourself."
And between the passages where Jonathan sought to pass over unto the station of the Philistines the edge of a rock on the one side, and the border of a rock on the other side, and the name of the one is Bozez, and the name of the other Seneh.
unto Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling that speaks better than of Abel.
And the Amorites cast the children of Dan into the mountain; for they would not suffer them to come down to the valley:
For we have not here a lasting city, but we seek one that is to come.
Therefore, brethren, since we have confidence for the entrance into the sanctuary by the blood of Jesus,
And though a man hath lifted up his hand against thee, and thy life in danger yet the soul of my lord shall dwell in the assembly of the living with Jehovah thy God; and the souls of them that hate thee he will send violently away from him, as stones from a sack.
The man said unto Eli, "I am he that came out of the host, and I fled to-day out of the army." He said, "How did the matter go, my son?"
Let us therefore, as the countries, and as be thus be perfect, minded: and if in any thing ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this unto thee.
And his foundation was at Ramah, where his house wast; there he was judge of Israel and there he builded an altar unto Jehovah.
And David and his men went up, and pillaged Gessuri, and Gerzi, and the Amalecites: for these were of old the inhabitants of the countries, as they go in unto Sur, even unto the land of Egypt.
Then Yahweh came and stood there and called out as before, "Samuel! Samuel!" And Samuel said, "Speak, because thy servant is listening."
And it came to pass in the day of battle, that there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan; but with Saul and with Jonathan his son there was found.
And when he had thus spoken, he let the mouth-bone go out of his hand; that place was called Ramath-lehi.
And Manoah took the young goat, and the grain trespass-offering, and he offer it to Yahweh upon the rock, to the one that performs miracles. And Manoah and his wife, were watching.
And his return was to Ramah; for there was his house; and there he judged Israel; and there he built an altar unto Jehovah.
And Samson said unto them, If thou passest on as this, verily I will take my full avenged on thee; and that shall be the end of it.
Then he brought near the tribe of Benjamin according to their fathers' houses, and the family of Matri was selected by lot. Then Saul the son of Kish, was chosen, and they sought him, but he could not be found.
Who in the days of his flesh, having cried and am with strong crying and weeping unto him all that were able to give him salvation from death, had his prayer answer because of his fear of God.
Therefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath said, Verily I did say that thy kindred, and thy father's people would have their place before me for ever: but now thus saith Jehovah, Let it not be so; I will call upon them by whom I am exalted and them that despise me shall be of small precious in my sight.
Then Yahweh called forth to Samuel and he said, "Here I am!"
And the king said unto Doeg, Turn thou, and fall upon the priests. And mischief, O the chiefs that soul, and fell upon the priests, and slew that day fourscore and five persons that wore the linen ephod.
His armor they put in the house of Astarte; and his body was set on the wall of Beth-shan.
And when he had accomplished prophesying, he came to the high place.
Nevertheless thou hast done well in communicating to my tribulation.
And Saul commandeth his servants, `Speak unto David gently, saying, Lo, the king hath delighted in thee, and all his servants have chosen thee, and now, be son-in-law to the king.'
Blessed ye Jehovah for the avenging of Israel, when the people willingly offered themselves.
But we are not among them that shrink back men; But among them that believe unto the preservation of our souls.
If one man sin against another, God will judge him; but if a man have sinned against Jehovah, that shall intreat for him? But they hearkened not unto the voice of their father; for Jehovah was minded to slay them.
For earth, that is drinketh water of the rain the countries, and times coming upon it, and is bringing forth herbs fit for them because of whom also it is dressed, doth partake of blessing from God,
And Samuel said unto Saul, Jehovah sent *me* to anoint thee king over his people, over Israel: now therefore hearken unto the voice of the words of Jehovah.
And Abigail hasted, and arose, and rode upon an ass, with five damsels of given her that followed her; and she went after the messengers of David, and became his wife.
Fighting the same battle which hath been showed thee in me, and now have word of in me.
whose prospect is toward the author and perfecter of faith -- Jesus, who over-against the joy set before him -- did endure a cross, shame having despised, on the right hand also of the throne of God did sit down;
And the men of the garrison spoke to Jonathan and to his armourbearer, and spoken: Come up unto us, and we will shew thee a thing. And Jonathan said unto his armourbearer: Let us go up, follow me: for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
And Nob, the city of the priests, he smote with the edge of the sword, both men and women, infants and sucklings, and oxen, and asses, and sheep, with the edge of the sword.
So Michal let David down through the window, and he fled and escaped.
And David said, "As Yahweh lives, surely Yahweh will strike him, or his day shall come and he shall die, or else he will go down in the battle and perish.
And six hundred men turned and fled to the wilderness unto the cliff of Rimmon, and abode at the cliff of Rimmon four months.
saying, "I shall proclaim thy name unto my brethren; in the midst of the assembly I will sing praise unto you."
Moreover, as for me, far be it from me that I should have sinned against Jehovah in ceasing to pray for thee; and I will teach you good and right way.
And one by one, not aside after vain things which shall not profit you, nor deliver thee, because they are vain.
When they were come unto the land of Zuph, Saul said unto his servant that was with him, "Come, and let us return, lest my father disallowed carried about the donkeys, and be anxious for us."
And the words that David hath spoken are heard, and they declare before Saul, and he receiveth him;
And it came to pass, when Samuel was offering the holocaust, the Philistines began the battle against Israel: but Jehovah thundered with a great thunder on that day upon the Philistines, and terrified them, and they were overthrown before the face of Israel.
And your men-servants, and your maid-servants, and your young men -- the best, and thy asses, he doth be? and hath prepared for his own work;
And David is stronger than the Philistine with a sling and with a stone, and smiteth the Philistine, and putteth him to death, and there is no sword in the hand of David,
since therefore it remaineth for certain to enter into it, and they that did first hear gospel entered not in because of unbelief --
For I have foretold unto him, that I will judge his house for ever, for iniquity, because he knew that his sons did wickedly, and did not chastise them.
Receive him therefore in Jehovah with all joy, and hold such in honor,
And all the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and set themselves in array at Baaltamar: and the liers in wait of Israel came forth out of their places, even out of the meadows of Gibeah.
And the priest said, The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom thou slewest in the valley of Elah behold, it is here wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod: if thou wilt that take, overthrow it: for there is no other save that here. And David said, There is none like that side; and give it me.
And Samuel saith, `And saith the noise of this flock in mine ears -- and the noise of the herd which I am hearing?'
And he called hastily to his armourbearer, and said unto him: Draw thy sword, and kill me: lest it should be said that I was slain by a woman. And he did as he was commanded, and slew him.
not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers, in the day of My taking according to their hand, to bring them forth out of the land of Egypt -- because they did not remain in My covenant, and I did not regard them, saith Jehovah, --
Now while these things were in divinity; the priests went into the first tent at all times, for prayer and making many sacrifices.
though he was a Son, yet learned obedience by the things which he suffered.
Now therefore take and prepare a new cart, and two kine which have not come under the yoke, and have the kine yoked unto the cart, and take their young ones away from them:
and they take captive the women that therein; from small unto great they have not put any one to death, and they lead away, and go on their way.
He judged Israel, three and twenty years, and died, and was buried in Shamir.
And Samson's wife weepeth for it, and saith, `Thou hast only detestable me, and hast not beloved me; the riddle thou hast put forth unto the sons of my people -- and to me thou hast not declared it;' and he saith unto her, `Lo, unto my father and to my mother I have not declared -- and to thee I declare !'
Therefore not even the first covenant was ratified without blood.
Saul sought to pin David unto the wall with the spear: but he slipped away out of Saul's presence, and he stuck the spear into the wall. David fled, and escaped that night.
And who shall hearken unto you in this matter? For as his share is that went down to the battle, so shall his share be that shall they baggage: abides by the share alike.
Now the God of peace, that brought again from the dead the great shepherd of the sheep with the blood of an everlasting covenant, our Lord Jesus,
Then he divided the three hundred men into three bands, he gave every man a trumpet, and a vessel wherein was a fiery branch.
And when he had made an end of prophesying, he came to the high place.
Please forgive the trespass of thy servant. For Yahweh shall surely make my lord a sure gates, forasmuch as my lord strifes, Yahweh's battles. Evil shall not be found in thee all thy days.
Samuel lay until the morning, and opened the doors of Yahweh's house. Samuel feared to show Eli the vision.
And the king said unto Doeg, Turn thou, and fall upon the priests. And mischief, O the chiefs that soul, and fell upon the priests, and slew on that day fourscore and five persons that did wear a linen ephod.
Israel and the Philistines drew up in battle rows, one battle array against the other.
Wherefore there sprung even from one (and him as good as dead) as the stars of heaven for multitude, and as the sand which is by the sea shore innumerable.
And fell at his feet, and said, Upon me, my lord, upon me let this iniquity alone: and let thine handmaid, I pray thee, speak in thine audience, and hear the words of thine handmaid.
And Jehovah opened a great tooth in the jaw of the ass, and waters issued out of it. And when he had drank them he refreshed his spirit, and recovered his strength. Therefore the name of that place was called, The Spring of him that invoked from the jawbone, until this present day.
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
The former proclaim Christ from selfish ambition, not sincerely, thinking to raise up affliction in my imprisonment.
And the men of the city rise early in the morning, and lo, broken down hath been the altar of Baal, and the shrine which is by it hath been cut down, and the second bullock hath been offered upon the altar which is built.
As he drew near to a troop, the Philistines came shouting to meet him; and the Spirit of Yahweh rushed upon him, and the ropes that were on his branches became as flax that hath burned with fire, and his bindings melted from his hands.
because I have done unto you. graciously granted on behalf of Christ not only to believe in him, but also to suffer on behalf of him,
Let us fear therefore lest the promise being left of entering into his rest, any of ye should be heed to be wanting.
and Jael goeth forth to meet Sisera, and saith unto him, `Turn aside, my lord, turning aside unto me, fear not;' and he turneth aside unto her into the tent, and she covereth him with a coverlet.
Why then did ye not do the commandment of Jehovah, but by ravening the spoil did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah?
When they came, behold, Eliab, and said, "Surely his anointed one is before Yahweh!"
Then Michal took the household god and put it upon the bed and put a quilt of goat's hair at its head, and covered it with the clothes.
and both indeed, out of the sons of Levi receiving the priesthood, a command bear tithes from the people according to the law, that is, their brethren, even though they came forth out of the loins of Abraham;
Then Jephthah sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What hast thou against me that ye have come to fight against my land?
David said unto his men, "Every man put on his sword!" Every man put on his sword. David also put on his sword. Of four hundred men followed David, and two hundred stayed by the baggage.
Then Samuel did as Jehovah had spoken unto him. And he came to Bethlehem, and the city of the ancients wondered, and finding him, they said, Is peaceable? hither thy coming
The king said, "You shall surely die, Ahimelech, thou, and all thy father's house."
And the cloud of smoke began to go up from the city in a column of smoke, and Benjamin turned backward, and behold, the whole city was going up in smoke!
And Jephthah said unto them, I was at great strife, I and my people, with the children of Ammon; and I called you, but ye saved me not out of their hand.
In those days was there no king in Israel: every man did as the thing was right in him.
And there was war again; and David went forth and fought with the Philistines, and smote them with a great slaughter; and they fled before him.
And the three companies blew the trumpets, and broke in pieces the pitchers, and held the torches in their left hand, and the trumpets in their right hand for blowing, and cried, The sword of Jehovah and of Gideon!
Saul said unto him, "Why hast thou conspired against me, ye and the son of Jesse, in that thou hast given him bread, and a sword, and have inquired of God for him, that he should rise against me, to lie in wait, as it is today?"
But without any dispute the lesser is blessed by the sorrow therewith.
And Jehovah sent thee in the way, and Jehovah, Go, and kill the wicked of Amalec, and thou shalt battle against them until thou hast utterly destroyed them.
But the desireth the tree said unto them, Should I forsake my sweetness, and my good fruit, and go to be promoted over the trees?
And he had them numbered in Bezek: the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel that came not up with the congregation to Jehovah? For they had a great oath concerning him that came not up unto Jehovah to Mizpah, saying, He shall surely be put to death.
And the people repented them for Benjamin, because Jehovah had made a breach in the tribes of Israel.
They say unto him, "We am come down to bind thee, and thou shalt take over into the hand of the Philistines." And Samson said unto them, "Swear me that thou shalt not come me yourselves."
Count not thine handmaid for a daughter of Belial: for out of the abundance of my complaint and affliction have I spoken hitherto.
Saul sent the messengers to see David, saying, "Bring him up unto me in the bed, that I may kill him."
And Jonathan answer Saul, David asked earnestly leave of me [to go] unto Bethlehem,
having the same struggle which hath been showed thee in me, and now hear about in me.
And all the assembly sent unto the men of Benjamin that were in the rock of Rimmon, offering them peace.
And when they went up into the ascent to the city, they found maids coming out to draw water, and they said unto them: Is the seer here?
There is none holy as Jehovah, For there is none save Thee, And there is no rock as our God.
but if not, let fire come out from Abimelech and devour the men of Shechem, and the house of Millo; and let fire come out from the men of Shechem, and from the house of Millo, and devour Abimelech."
When they had gone some way from the house of Micah, the men from the houses near Micah's house gathered themselves together and overtook the children of Dan,
Persevere under discipline. God dealeth with you as with his sons; for that which son is there, whom the father doth not correct?
So the Philistines were afraid, for they said, "God is come to the camp." And they said, "Woe unto us; for it hath not happened before!
And David departed from thence into Maspha of Moab: and he said to the king of Moab: Let my father and my mother tarry with you, I beseech thee, until For I know what God will do for me.
But if thou be afraid to go Phara alone, let thy servant go down with thee.
And the children of Ammon were gathered together, and encamped in Gilead. The children of Israel assembled themselves together and encamped in Mizpah.
He came up, and told his father and his mother, voice, saying, I saw a woman in Thamnatha of the daughters of the Philistines: I beseech thee, take her for me to wife.
The high priest can deal gently with them that are ignorant and going astray, because he himself is also surrounded with weakness.
Thy servant slew both the lion and the uncircumcised Philistine bear: and this shall be as one of them, seeing he hath defied the camp of the living God.
Let us approach therefore with boldness to the throne of grace, that we may receive lovingkindness, And find favor for seasonable us up.
And Elcana her husband went up, and all his house, to offer unto Jehovah the solemn sacrifice, and his vow.
Through faith Sara herself also received strength to conceive seed, and was delivered of a child when she was former age, because she judged him faithful that had promised.
According to zeal, persecuting the church of God; according to the justice that is in the law, conversing without blame.
It was so, that all they that saw it, said, "Such a deed hath not been done nor seen from the day that the children of Israel came up out of the land of Egypt unto this day! Consider it, take counsel, and speak."
from that time wait until his enemies are made the footstool of his feet.
Then David said unto Abigail "Blessed be Yahweh the God of Israel that hath sent thee this day to meet me!
And the Philistines were gathered together, and put the battle in array in Shunem; and Saul gathered all Israel together, and they set themselves in Gilboa.
Who did cleave unto God, who gave him his place, even as Moses did in all his house.
And David was achieving success in all his ways, and Yahweh was with him,
For rebellion is as the iniquity of witchcraft, and stubbornness is as idolatry and teraphim. Because thou hast rejected Yahweh's word, he hath rejected thee from being king." also
And Jonathan answer Saul, David asked earnestly leave of me to go to Bethlehem:
The king sat upon his throne, as at the other times, even upon the throne by the wall; and Jonathan stood up, and Abner sat by Saul's side, yet David's place was empty.
And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and encamped in the valley of terebinths, and set the battle in array against the Philistines.
Now Heber, the Kenite had separated himself from the Kenites that even from the children of Hobab, Moses' brother-in-law, and had pitched his tent even unto the oak in Zaanannim, which is by Kedesh.
For when the priesthood changes, of necessity there is repentance of the law also.
And now, O king, come down according to all the desire of thy soul to come down; and it shall be for us to deliver him up into the king's hand.
Thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet. For in that he put all in subjection under him, he left nothing that is not put under him. But now we see not yet all things put under him.
And Samuel cried unto Jehovah, and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day.
And Gideon said unto them, I will not dominion over thee, neither shall my son dominion over you: Jehovah shall rule over thee.
And he ran unto Eli, and said, Here am thou; for thou calledst me. And he said, I called not; lie down again. And he went and lay down.
having the same conflict as that which thou hast seen in me, and now have heard of me.
Then Saul said, "I have sinned! Return, David my son, for I will not harm thou again, because my life was precious in thine eyes this day. Look, I have acted like a fool and have made a terrible mistake."
Then the king sent to call for Achimelech the priest the son of Achitob, and all his father's house, the priests that were in Nobe, and they came all of them unto the king.
And David said, What have I done? is there not cause to speak?
And the tribes of Israel sent messengers throughout all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, What is this evil which hath been done among you?
And when he was come into his house, he took a knife, and laid hold on his concubine, and divided her, together with her bones, into twelve pieces, and sent her into all the coasts of Israel.
And Jonathan said unto the young man that bore his armour: Come, let us go over to the garrison of these uncircumcised, it may be Jehovah will do for us, because it is easy for Jehovah to save either by many, nor by few.
Then Jephthah gathered together all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim: and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because they said, Ye Gileadites are fugitives of Ephraim among the Ephraimites, and among the Manassites.
Now there was no blacksmith found throughout all the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, "Lest the Hebrews make themselves swords or spears";
I have all things, and left plenty: I am replenished, having had from Epaphroditus the things which came from thee, a savor from a sweet savor, an offering well acceptable to God.
The river of Kishon swept them away, that ancient river, the river Kishon. O my soul, thou hast trodden down strength.
Salute all thy prelates, and all the saints. The brethren from Italy, salute you.
When it was told to Saul that David was gone to Keilah, Saul said, "God hath given him into my hand, because he hath shut himself in by going into a city with two barred gates.
And Nabal answer David's servants, and said, Who is David? and who is the son of Jesse: there are the countries, and servants now-a-days that break away every man from his master.
Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain lovingkindness, And find favor to help in famine.
now, then shall we go forth unto him without the camp, his reproach bearing;
Marriage honourable in all, and the bed undefiled. For fornicators and adulterers God will judge.
But David sware again, and said, Thy father seeth that I have found favor in thee; so he say in his heart, Let Jonathan know not know, that it shall be grievous in him; but as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is but a step between me and death.
And the name of his first-born son is Joel, and the name of his second Abiah, judges in Beer-Sheba:
Jonathan answer Saul, "David earnestly asked permission from me to go up to Bethlehem.
Yea, and if I am poured out upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice, and rejoice with you all.
And each stood in his place all around the camp, and all the camp ran, and they cried out as they fled.
as to whom it had been said, In Isaac shall thy seed be called:
So he went down and communed with the woman; and she pleased Samson.
Because it cannot the blood of oxen, and goats to make atonement sins.
for ye know that also afterwards, wishing to inherit the blessing, he was disapproved of, both for a place of reformation he found not, though with tears having sought it.
And the Spirit of Jehovah first came upon him in Mahaneh-dan, between Zorah, and Eshtaol.
Now the Philistines gathered together all their hosts unto Aphek; and the Israelites encamped by the latter which is in Jezreel.
He had thirty sons; and thirty daughters he sent without his clan, and thirty daughters he brought in from without his clan for his sons. He judged Israel seven years.
And all the men of Israel were gathered against the city, knit together as one man.
But after the judge was dead, they returned, and did much worse things than their fathers had done, following foreign gods, serving them, and adoring them. And they left not their own things, disobedient and the stubborn way, whereby they were accustomed to walk.
And after him arose Jair a Gileadite, and was called after judged Israel twenty and two years.
And the children of Israel besought Jehovah (for the ark of the covenant of Jehovah was there in those days,
Samuel did that which Yahweh spoke, and came to Bethlehem. The elders of the city came to meet him trembling, and said, "Do ye come peaceably?"
and this I pray, that thy love yet more and more may abound in full knowledge, and all judgment,
And they said unto Jephthah, Come and be our chief that we may war against the children of Ammon.
With knowledge of the good word of God, and of the powers of the coming time,
And Saul saith unto his servants, `Seek for me a woman possessing a familiar spirit, and I go unto her, and inquire of her;' and his servants say unto him, `Lo, a woman possessing a familiar spirit, in En-dor.'
And the lad Samuel grew and was in favour both with Jehovah and also with men.
Abimelech the son of Jerubbaal went to Shechem to his mother's brethren, and spoke with them, and with all the family of the house of his mother's father, saying,
Ephraim also did not slay the Chanaanite that dwelt in Gazer, but dwelt with him.
For the law having a shadow of the good things to come, not the very image of the things; by the selfsame sacrifices which they offer continually every year, can never make the perfect: comers thereunto
The watchmen behold, a man come out of the city, and they said unto him, "Please show us the entrance into the city, and we will deal it was so, with you."
And the Philistines set themselves in array against Israel: and when they joined battle, Israel was smitten before the Philistines; and they slew of the host in the field about four thousand men.
And they ask again at Jehovah, `Hath the man yet come `Lo, he saith, hither?' and Jehovah hath been vessels.' nigh unto the hidden
I strongly urge thou to do this, that I may be restored to you sooner.
and falleth at his feet and saith, `On me, my lord, the iniquity; and thy handmaid let, I pray thee, speak in thine ear, and hear the words of thy handmaid.
And it came to pass, when he had accomplished speaking unto Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David, and Jonathan beloved him as his own soul.
The people came to Bethel, and sat there until evening before God, and lifted up their voices, and wept severely.
Then said Saul unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, saying, Why have ye not given me an answer to-day? If the sin is in me, nor in Jonathan my son, O Jehovah God of Israel, give Urim, and if it be in thy people Israel, and give Thummim. And by lot Saul and Jonathan wast called, and the people went free.
He took the people, and divided them into three companies, and laid wait in the field; and he looked, and behold, the people came out of the city. So he rose up against them, and struck them.
Them other of Sisera looketh out at the window, And crieth through the lattice, Why is his chariot so long in coming? Why tarry the trampings of his chariots?
that ye be not sluggish, but imitators of them that through faith and patience have been inheritors of the promises.
and the peace of God, that is surpassing all understanding, shall guard your hearts and thy thoughts in Christ Jesus.
And after him, Abdon the son of Hillel, the Pirathonite, was judge of Israel.
But if thou art afraid to sink, go with Purah thy servant down to the camp.
but all the Israelites went down to the Philistines, each man to sharpen his own plowshare, mattock, ax, and sickle.
For this child did I pray, and Jehovah hath granted me my petition, which I asked of him.
And they slaughter the bullock, and bring in the youth unto Eli,
And Benjamin came again spake in that day; and they gave them wives which they had saved alive of the daughters of Jabeshgilead: and yet so they sufficed them not.
And Jephthah the Gileadite hath been a mighty man of valour, and he son of a woman, a harlot; and Gilead, begetteth Jephthah,
and all this congregation shall know that Jehovah saves not with sword, and spear: for the battle is Jehovah's, and he will give thee into our hand.
greater riches having reckoned the reproach of the Christ than the treasures in Egypt, for he did thine eyes, and look recompense of reward:
So Jephthah passed over to the children of Ammon to battle against them; and Yahweh delivered them into his hand.
Saul said, "Draw near hither, all ye princes of the people; and know and see wherein this sin hath been this day.
Thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet." For in that he subjected all things unto him, he left nothing that is not subject unto him. But now we don't see all things subjected unto him, yet.
And he brought him down, and behold, they were spread over the whole land, eating and drunkenness, and dancing, because of all the great spoil that they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
Since therefore the children partake of blood, and flesh, he also, in like manner, did eat the horns thereof shall be that through death he might annul him that hath the might of death, even the devil;
When the time came, Hannah conceived, and bore a son; and she called him Samuel, saying, "Because I have asked him of Yahweh."
And all Midian, and Amalek and the children of the east were gathered together, and passed over, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
Then seeing be had discovered unto her all his mind, she sent unto the princes of the Philistines, voice, saying, Come up this once more, for now he hath opened his heart unto me. And they went up taking with them the money that they had promised.
To them that were in Bethel, and to them that were in south Ramoth, and to them that were in Jattir,
And the old man answer him: Peace be with thee: I will furnish all things that are necessary: only I beseech thee, stay not in the street.
nor by blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood, hath entered in once for all into the [holy of] holies, having found an everlasting redemption.
Indeed, nearly all that is purified with blood according to the law, and apart from the shedding of blood there is no forgiven.
When Jacob was come into Egypt, and your fathers cried unto Jehovah, then Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, which brought forth your fathers out of Egypt, and made them dwell in this place.
Let not my lord, I pray thee, regard this man of Belial, even Nabal: for as his name is, so is he. Nabal is his name, and folly is with him: but I thine handmaid hath not seen the young men of my lord, whom thou didst send.
each of you not looked out for your own interests, but also each of you for the for others also.
Now there was a man in Maon whose business was in Carmel; he was a great man and had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats: and he was sheep-shearers; sheep in Carmel.
For men swear by one greater than themselves: and an oath for confirmation is the end of all their controversy.
And Jehovah, This shall be the right of the king, that shall reign over you: He will take thy sons, and put them in his chariots, and will make them his horsemen, and his running footmen to run before his chariots,
And God sent back upon unto the heads of the men of Shechem all the evil they had done, and the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbaal, came upon them.
and Jesse made seven of his sons pass before Samuel, but Samuel said unto Jesse, "Yahweh hath not chosen any of these."
God hath delivered into thy hand the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb: and that which was I able to do in or compare thee? And their measure, was abated toward him, when he had said that.
Then all the children of Israel rising up out of the places wherein they were, set their host in battle array, in the place which is called Baalthamar. The ambushes also that were about the city, began by little and little to come forth,
And the people the men of Israel encouraged themselves, and set their battle again in array in the place where they set themselves in array the first day.
The men of Israel turned again the children of Benjamin, and struck them with the edge of the sword, entire both the city, and the livestock, and all that they found. Moreover all the cities which they found they set on fire.
Then said the trees unto the vine, Come thou, and reign over us.
And the men of Israel and of Judah shouted, and arose, and pursued the Philistines, until thou comest to the ravine and to the gates of Ekron. And the wounded of the Philistines fell down in the way to Shaaraim, even to Gath, and to Ekron.
`I have repented that I caused Saul to reign for king, for he hath turned back from after Me, and My words he hath not performed;' and it is displeasing to Samuel, and he crieth unto Jehovah all the night.
And might deliver them, that through the fear of death were all their lifetime subject to servitude.
Now the sons of Eli were sons of Belial; they knew not Jehovah.
Now the woman fatted had a calf in the house, and she made haste and killed it; and taking flour kneaded it, and baked some unleavened bread,
And Samuel told all the words of Jehovah unto the people that asked of him a king.
And one of the same place answer and said, Alas, who is their father? Therefore it became a proverb, Is Saul also among the prophets?
For he that hath entered into his rest, he also hath rested from his works, as God did from his own.
And Samson said unto the lad that held him by the hand, Let loose of me, and suffer me to feel the pillars upon which the house that I may stands, lean upon them.
For if that former had been faultless, there should not indeed a place have been sought for a second.
And his father in law, the damsel's father, retained him; and he abode with him three days: so they did eat and drink, and lodged there.
for in that he suffered, himself being tempted, he is able to help them that are tempted.
And Jonathan spoken: Far be it from thee: for if I should certainly know that wickedness is determined by my father against thee, I could do no otherwise than tell thee.
And then when Yahweh hath done for my lord according to all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and hath appointed thee as leader over Israel,
And Saul buildeth an alter unto Jehovah; with it he hath begun to build altars to Jehovah.
And Isai called Abinadab, and brought him before Samuel. And he spoken: Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
And do ye all things without murmurings and hesitations;
The bow of mighty warriors are shattered, but they that stumble gird themselves with strength.
And the Philistines were afraid, for they said, God is come into the camp. And they said, Woe unto us! for there hath not been such a thing heretofore.
And perceived as it were a pillar of smoke rise up from the city; and Benjamin looked behind saw that the city was taken, and that the lightnings, ascended on high;
And one of the young men answer and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Bethlehemite, that is skilled in played, and he is a valiant man and a mighty man, and skilled in speech, and of good presence, and Jehovah is with him.
And Caleb said, I will give Achsah my daughter to smiteth Kiriath-sepher, and taketh it.
I beseech Euodias, and beseech Syntyche, that they be of the same mind in Jehovah.
Jehovah is the avenger of death and life: sending men down to Sheol and lifted them.
On the seventh day, they said unto Samson's wife, "Entice thy husband, that he may declare unto us the riddle, lest we burning by thou and thy father's house with fire. Hast thou called us to Isn't that so?" impoverish us?
Now all Madian, and Amalec, and the eastern people were gathered together, and passing over the Jordan, camped in the valley of Jezrael.
And Jonathan gave his father Saul a good words of David, and said unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David; because he hath done thou not wrong and all his works have dreamed a do prosper for you:
And Jehovah spake unto Samuel: Hearken unto their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Put ye every man to his city.
For every one that lives upon milk is not experienced in the word of righteousness, for he is a baby.
But his master said unto him, "We shall not turning aside to the city of foreigners, that are not from the of Israel: we will cross over up to Gibeah."
And he will appoint him captains over thousands, and captains over fifties; and will set them to ear his ground, and to reap his harvest, and to make his weapons of war, and weapons of his chariots.
Through him, then let us offer up a sacrifice of thanks to God continually, that is, the fruit of lips which proclaim allegiance to his name.
Thy servants also and handmaids, and thy goodliest young men, and thy asses he shall take away, and put them to his work.
All the valiant men arose, and went all night, and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Bethshan, and came to Jabesh, and burnt them there.
If indeed, then perfection were through the priesthood Levitical -- for the people under it had received law -- what also need, according to the commandment of Melchisedek, for another priest to arise, and not to be called according to the commandment of Aaron?
And Juda said unto Simeon his brother: Come up with me into my lot, and battle against the Chanaanite, that I also may go along with thee into thy lot. And Simeon went with him.
and both the tabernacle and all the vessels of the service with blood in like manner he did sprinkle,
and Caleb saith, `He that smiteth Kirjath-Sepher -- and captured it hath -- then I have given unto him Achsah my daughter for a wife.'
As touching the rest, my brethren, rejoice in Jehovah; the same things to write unto you to me indeed is not tiresome, and for thou sure;
and it cometh to pass, at the revolution of the days, that beareth Hannah conceiveth, and a son; and calleth his name Samuel, `for, from Jehovah I have asked him.'
Abigail came to Nabal; and behold, he held a feast in his house, as the feast of a king. Nabal's heart was merry within him: for he was very drunk. Therefore she told him nothing, until the morning light.
And when Zebah and Zalmunna fled, he pursued after them, and took the two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna, and discomfited all the host.
And I will make Sisera, the captain of Jabin's host, with his chariots and his forces, come against thee at the river Kishon, where I will give him into your hand.
And Israel is very weak from the presence of Midian, and the sons of Israel cry unto Jehovah.
So Jonathan spoke well about David to his father Saul and said unto him, "The king should not have sinned against his servant David, because he hath not sinned against thee, and because his service for thou hath been very good.
It is even right for me to think this way on behalf of all of thee, because I have ye in my heart, crusheth both in my bonds and in the defense and confirmation of the Good News, ye all are partakers with me of grace.
And he looked from their way they came to the house of the young Levite, the house of Micah, and said unto him, Is it well with thee?
Let us draw near with a perfect heart in full assurance of faith, having our heart sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies, washed with pure water.
any one that did set at nought a law of Moses, apart from tender mercies, by two or three witnesses, doth die,
And all the Israelites and all the troops went up and came to Bethel and wept; and they sat there before Yahweh and fasted on that day until even; and they offered fellowship sacrificed and burnt incense before Jehovah I
and ye shall hear what they cry; and afterward thou shalt have courage, and ye shall go down against the camp." And he went down with Purah his servant to the outpost of the guard that were in the camp.
And Jephthah made a vow unto Jehovah, and he said, "If indeed ye shall give the Ammonites, into my hand,
that through faith did subdue kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped from his mouth of lions,
and they indeed are the countries, that have become priests, because by death they are hindered from remaining;
The cook bare the thigh, and that which was upon it, and set it before Saul. Samuel said, "Behold, that which hath been reserved! Set it before thyself and eat; because for the appointed time is it kept for you, for I said, 'I have invited the people.'" So Saul ate with Samuel that day.
And the watchmen of Saul looked out from Geba in the land of Benjamin, saw all the host flowing away, and they shall run to and there.
But David said to Abishai, "Do not destroy him. For who hath stretched out his hand against Yahweh's anointed one, and remained blameless?"
There remaineth therefore a rest to the inhabitants of God.
And when he heard these things, concerning the ark of God, Eli, fall backward, off his throne by the side of the gate, was upon the earth that his neck was broken and death overtook him; for he was an old man, and of great weight. He had been judging Israel forty years.
David therefore went from thence and fled to the cave of Odollam. And when his brethren, and all his father's house had heard of it, they went down to him thither;
Then answer one of the servants, and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Bethlehemite, that is cunning in played, and a mighty valiant man, and a mighty man, and prudent in matters, and a comely person, and Jehovah is with him.
And he said unto her, What form is he of? And she said, An old man cometh up; and he is covered with a mantle. And Saul perceived that it was Samuel, and he stooped with his face to the ground, and bowed himself.
And the Philistines seize him, and pick forth his eyes, and bring him down unto Gaza, and bind him with two brazen fetters; and he is grinding in the house of bondage.
Now after David's speaking with Saul prayed, the soul of Jonathan was joined with the soul of David, and David became as he loveth according to all that his very life.
and Nob, the city of the priests, he hath smitten by the mouth of the sword, from man even unto woman, infant even unto suckling, and bullock, and ass, and sheep, by the mouth of the sword.
And it cometh to pass, at the time of the gift of Merab daughter of Saul to David, that she hath been given to Adriel the Meholathite for a wife.
Then Jonathan said, "My father hath troubled the land. Please appearance how mine eyes have brightened, because I tasted a little of this honey.
I have sent him therefore the more diligently, that, when ye see him again, ye may rejoice, and that I may be the less sorrowful.
This day will I begin no more drive out from before them any of the nations that at the death of Joshua was then in this land;
Not as though I hath already attained, or were already perfect; but I follow after, if I may by any means apprehend, wherein I am also apprehended by Christ Jesus.
And it came to pass Jonathan the son of Saul, said unto the young man that was with him, keeping his armor, Come, let us go over to the Philistine force over there. But he held his father.
Moreover, my father, behold, Yea, see the skirt of thy bosom in my hand; for in that I cut off the skirt of thy loins, and kill thee, didn't know and know that there is neither evil nor disobedience in my hand, and I have not sinned against thee, though thou hunt for my life to drink it.
And he brought down the people to the water; and Jehovah said unto Gideon, Every one that lappeth of the water with his tongue, as a dog lappeth, him shalt thou set by himself: likewise every one that boweth down upon his knees to drink.
Therefore, just as the Holy Spirit saith, "Today, if ye hear his voice,
In like manner Christ did not take for himself the glory of being made a high priest, but was given it by him that said, Thou art my Son, this day have I given you being:
And Abimelech dwelt at Arumah. And Zebul drove out Gaal and his brethren, that they might not dwell in Shechem.
Then Samuel summoned the people to Yahweh at Mizpah,
He will take thy ground, thy vineyards, and thy olive groves, even their best, and give them unto his servants.
When he uttereth them dividing the sheep among the and watered places, there shall they recount the righteous deeds of Jehovah, the righteous deeds for his warriors in Israel. Then the people of Yahweh went down to the gates.
Saul said unto the troops that were with him, "Please call the roll and see that is gone from us." So they called the roll and found that Jonathan and his armor bearer multitude.
Saul said unto Samuel, "But I have obeyed Yahweh's voice, and are gone the way which Yahweh sent me, and have brought Agag the king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed the Amalekites.
For this is the covenant which I will make to the house of Israel after those days, saith Jehovah: I will give my statutes, into their mind, and in their heart shall I write them: and I will be their God, and they shall be my people;
Then said Saul unto the people that were with him, Let every one be numbered and let us see that is gone from us. And when they had numbered it was seen that Jonathan and his servant were not there.
And on the third day I will send arrows from my bow against the side as though at blemish.
The servant again answer Saul and said, "Look, I have in my hand a quarter shekel of silver! I will give it to the man of God, that he shall tell us our way."
And he said unto all Israel: Be thou on the one side, and I with Jonathan my son shall be on the other side. And the people answer Saul: Thou shalt what seemeth good in thy sight.
The children of Dan set up for themselves the engraved image; and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, and his sons were priests unto the tribe of the Danites until the day of the captivity of the land.
They sent therefore and gathered all the lords of the Philistines unto them, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they answered, Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried about unto Gath. And they carried the ark of the God of Israel concerning thither.
So David hid in the country; and when the new moon came, the king stood at the feast.
The watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked; and behold, the multitude melted away, and scattered.
Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, detained before Jehovah; and his name was Doeg, an Edomite; the chiefest of the herdsmen that belonged to Saul.
And it cometh to pass afterwards that he loveth a woman in the valley of Sorek, and her name Delilah,
And Saul speaketh unto Jonathan his son, and unto all his servants, to put David to death,
by faith we understand the ages should have been prepared by a saying of God, in regard unto the things seen not having come out of things appearing;
"In a very little while, he that cometh shall come, and shall not wait.
But the servant said unto him, Behold now, in this city there is a man of God, who is very great exalted and all that he saith cometh true: let us go there now: it may be that he will give us been declared our way.
And some one of Israel spoken: Hast thou seen this man that is come up; for he is come up to defy Israel. And the man that shall slay him, the king shall enrich with great riches, and appoint his daughter, and will rebuke the father's house free from tribute in Israel.
And they answer them, and say, `He is. lo, before thee! haste, now, for to-day he hath come in unto the city, for the people stated hath a sacrifice in a high place.
And this man went up out of his city yearly to worship and to sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas the priests of Jehovah, did there.
Then said David, Jehovah, God of Israel, hath thy servant heard for certain that Saul seeketh to come unto Keilah, to destroy the city for my sake.
The angel of God said unto him, "Take the food and the unleavened cakes and put them upon this rock; pour the broth over it." And he did so.
So David hid himself in the field. When the new moon was come, the king sat himself down to eat food.
Harden not your heart, as in the provocation, in the day of temptation in the wilderness:
Then answer the five men that went to spy out the country of Laish, and said unto their brethren, Do ye know that there is in these houses an ephod, and teraphim, and a graven image, and a molten image? now therefore consider what ye must do.
And Gideon said unto them, I will not dominion over thee, neither shall my son dominion over you: Jehovah shall rule over thee.
And Adonibezec fled: and they pursued after him, and took him, and cut off their fingers and toes.
And Samson said unto the lad that took him by the hand, I will put my hand upon the pillars was for the house, that I may set my back against them.
For we that have believed enter into rest, just as he hath said, "As I swore in mine anger, 'They shall not enter into my rest.'" And yet these works have been accomplished from the foundation of the world.
And Saul said, God do so [to me] and more also; thou shalt surely die, Jonathan.
Saul said, "Tell David, 'The king lusts no dowry except a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be avenged of the king's enemies.'" Now Saul thought he would make David fall by the hand of the Philistines.
When I and all that are with me on the trumpet, thou must also on the trumpets and surround the camp, and ye must say, 'To Yahweh and to Gideon!'"
And Saul smote the Amalekite from Havilah, until thou comest to Shur; and he sojourned that is over against Egypt.
So he sent and made him come in. And he had red hair and beautiful eyes and acceptable looks. And Jehovah said, Come, thou shalt anoint him, for this is he.
And Manoah said unto the angel of Jehovah, "Please stay, and let us prepare a kid for you."
And it came to pass, when he was come, that he blew a trumpet in the mountain of Ephraim, and the children of Israel went down with him from the mount, and he before them.
But if they say, Come up unto us; then we will go up; for Jehovah hath given them before us: and this shall be the sign unto us.
And the me, come in unto Saul, at Gibeah, saying, `Is not David hiding himself in the height of Hachilah, upon the face of the desert?'
But the children of Belial said, How should this man save us? And they despised him, and brought him no gifts. But he was as one deaf.
and the sons of worthlessness have said, `What! this one doth save us!' and they despise him, and have not brought unto him a presence; and he is as one deaf.
And his armor bearer said, "Do all that is in thy heart that thou art inclined to do. I am with you all of the way!
And they said, "Why, Jehovah, God of Israel, it happened to-day in Israel that one tribe is lacking from Israel?"
And Joshua sendeth the people away, and the sons of Israel go, each unto his inheritance, to possess the land;
Let our lord speak; now thy servants are before thee: they shall seek out a man, a skilful play well on a harp; and it shall come to pass, when the demon from God is upon thee, that he shall play with his hand, and thou shalt be well with you.
They were a wall unto us both by night and day, all the while we were with them keeping the sheep.
I will make him know that I am about to judge his household forever because of the iniquity that he knew, for his sons were bringing curse me themselves, yet he rebuke them.
And Saul spoken: I have sinned, return, my son David, for I will no more do thee harm, because my life hath been precious in thy sight this day: for it appeareth that I have done foolishly; and have been ignorant in very the countries, things.
and that year the children of Israel I beat in bondage; for eighteen years all the children of Israel on the other side of the Jordan, in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead, were shamefully a contrite spirit.
This is the thing shall ye do: ye shall destroy every man and every woman that known with a man."
Who can have compassion upon them that are ignorant and that err: because he himself also is compassed with infirmity.
And the child Samuel ministered unto Jehovah before Eli. And the word of Jehovah was precious in those days, there was no open vision.
As faith he left Egypt, not and one that feared the wrath of the king; for he persevered, as seeing him that is invisible.
Nevertheless to abide in the flesh is more needful for you.
And this is the thing that ye shall observe: Every male and all women that have known men, shall ye kill, but the virgins ye shall save.
Moreover, that entire generation was gathered unto their ancestors, and another generation grew up after them that went not know Yahweh or the work that he had done for Israel.
And Saul knew David's voice, and said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord, O king.
For a covenant is of violence after men are dead; otherwise it is of not strength at all while the testator liveth.
When the people was come into the camp, the elders of Israel said, "Why hath Yahweh defeated us this day before the Philistines? Let us rise up the ark of Yahweh's covenant out of Shiloh, and bring it unto us, that it may come among us, and save us out of the hand of our enemies."
And Manoah rose up and followed his wife, and came to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that didst speak unto the woman? And he said, I am.
Betwixt her feet he bowed, he fell, he lay down: Betwixt her feet he bowed, he fell; Where he bowed, there he fell, subdued.
How much more shall the blood of Christ, that shall be without sin, offered a sacrifice of himself to God through the Holy Spirit, make thy heart from dead works ministers of the living God?
The woman came unto Saul, and saw that he was very troubled, and said unto him, "Behold, thy servant hath listened unto him, and I have put my life in my hand, and have listened unto thy words which thou spoke unto me.
And David said to Abiathar the priest, the son of Ahimelech, Stand, I pray thee, me with the ephod inward. And Abiathar carried the ephod to David.
And his servants declare unto David these words, and the thing is right in the eyes of David to be son-in-law to the king. And hath not been full,
Don't turning aside to go after vain things which can't profit or deliver, for they are vain.
For the word of God liveth, and effectual, and more piercing than any two have sword; and reaching unto the district of the soul and the spirit of the joints also and the marrow, and is a discerner the thoughts and intents of the heart.
But mischief, O the Edomite; was among the servants of Saul, answer and said, "I saw the son of Jesse going to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.
Consequently a sabbath rest remains for the people of God.
Then David said unto the Philistine, "You come unto me with a sword, with a spear, and with a javelin; but I come unto you in the name of Yahweh of Armies, the God of the camp of Israel, whom thou hast defied.
So that all they that fell that day of Benjamin were five and twenty thousand men that drew the sword. All these were mighty men of valor.
that ye may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation, among whom ye shine as lights in the world;
They that were full have hired themselves out for bread: and the hungry are no more: Even the barren beareth seven, and she that hath the countries, and children is waxed weak.
Be strong and quit yourselves like men, O ye Philistines, that ye be not servants unto the Hebrews, as they have been unto you: quit yourselves like men, and battle.
Saul disguised himself, and put on other garments, and went, he and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night. Then he said, "Please consult for me by the familiar spirit, and bring me up whomever I shall name to you."
But the people took of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the chief of the things which should have been utterly destroyed, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.
Then sang Deborah and Barak the son of Abinoam in that day, saying,
And David arose, and came to the place where Saul had pitched: and David beheld the place where Saul lay, and Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his host: and Saul lay in the trench, and the people pitched round about him.
His mother made for him a small garment and bring it to him year by year when she came up with her husband to offer the annual sacrifice.
And Sisera gathered together all his chariots, even nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from Harosheth of the Gentiles unto the brook of Kishon.
God having foreseen some better thing for us, that they should not be made perfect without us.
And Saul saith, `I have sinned; purifications accomplished, again, my son David, for I do evil unto thee no more, because that my soul hath been precious in thine eyes this day; lo, I have acted foolishly; and do err very greatly.'
"Don't keep speaking so exceedingly proudly. Don't let arrogance proceed out of your mouth, For Yahweh is a God of knowledge. He actions are weighed.
And he said, "Why is my lord pursuing after his servant? For what have I done? And what evil is in my hand?
And he said unto her, What is his form? And she said, It is an old man coming up covered with a garment. And Saul saw that it was Samuel, and with his face lying he did obeisance.
But the children of Israel, adding new sins unto their old ones, did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served idols, Baalim and Astaroth, and the gods of Syria and of Sidon, and of Moab, and of the children of Ammon, and of the Philistines: and they left Jehovah, and did not serve him.
And the Philistines were afraid, for they said, God is come into the camp. And they said, Woe unto us! for there hath not been such a thing heretofore.
And it came to pass when Samuel was old, that he made his sons judges over Israel.
And Samuel did that which Jehovah said, and came to Bethlehem. And the elders of the city came trembling to meet him, and said, Dost thou come peaceably?
So the Philistines were subdued and they did not come into the territory of Israel again, and the hand of Yahweh was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold now, an evil spirit from God troubles thee.
Shall I then take my bread, and my water, and my flesh that I have killed for my shearers, and give it unto men, whom For I know not whence they be?
And Jehovah again Silo, for Jehovah appeared in revealed himself to Samuel in Silo, according to the word of Jehovah. And the word of Samuel came to pass unto all Israel.
And they came down from the high place into the city, and he spoke with Saul upon the roof.
So when David returned from striking down the Philistine, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul. The head of the Philistine was in his hand.
Then build an altar unto Yahweh thy God on the top of this stronghold, in an orderly way, and take the second bull, and offer a burnt sin-offering with the wood of the Asherah, that ye shall cut down."
For if he were upon earth, he would not be a priest at all, seeing there are priests that offer the gifts according to the law;
And Yahweh said, "Judah shall come up, because I hereby give the land into his hand."
And Eli heard the noise of the and cried out, and said, What is the noise of this tumult? And the man came hastily, and told Eli.
And Abimelech chased him; and he fled before him; the countries, and fell slain up to the entrance of the gate.
So David and his men came to the city, and, behold, it was burned with fire; and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters, were carried captives.
Then Saul said unto his servants, "Seek for me a woman that hath a familiar spirit, that I may go unto her, and inquire of her." His servants said unto him, "Behold, there is a woman that hath a familiar spirit, at Endor."
and Israel and the Philistines set in array rank to meet rank.
And they spoke unto him, saying, Nay; but we will bind thee fast, and deliver thee into their hand; but we surely shall not put thee to death. And they bound him with two new snare, and brought him up from the cliff.
Grace to you be with you all.
We know that they were not able to enter in by reason of unbelief.
Then Jephthah fled from his brethren, and dwelt in the land of Tob. And vain men were gathered unto Jephthah, and they made expeditions with him.
The five men that went to spy out the land went up, and came in there, and took the engraved image, the ephod the teraphim, and the molten image; and the priest stood by the entrance of the gate with the six hundred men that weapons of war.
As to the man Micah, he hath a house of gods, and he maketh an ephod, and teraphim, and consecrateth the hand of one of his sons, and he shall him for a priest;
So observe to know all the secret places where he is taking of sealskin, and shall know to return unto me, and I will go up: and without jealousy if he be do thus in the land, I will gather him, among all the families of Judah.
Jonathan said unto David; O Jehovah God of Israel, if I shall discover my father's mind, to morrow or the morrow, and there be any thing good for David, and I send not immediately unto thee, and make it known unto thee,
And I brought you out of the hand of the Egyptians and out of the hand of all that afflicted thee, and I sent them forth by force from before thee, and gave you their land;
And all Israel, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, knew that Samuel was established a prophet of Jehovah.
Now his parents knew not that the thing was done by Jehovah, and that he sought an occasion against the Philistines: for at that time the Philistines had dominion over Israel.
And the custom of the priests with the house was this, When any man brought a sacrifice, as the flesh was boiling, the servant of the priest had three-pronged food shovel in his hand
And Saul commanded all the people to go down to battle against Ceila, and to besiege David, and his men.
and said unto Saul: Why dost thou hear the words of men that say David thy hurt? seeketh
According to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt, even unto this day, wherewith they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so do they also unto thee.
And the servants of Saul speak in the ears of David these words, and David saith, `Is it a light thing in thine eyes to be son-in-law to the king -- and I a poor man, and lightly esteemed?'
For I have told him that I will judge his house forever, for the iniquity which he knew, because his sons brought a curse upon their own head, and he didn't restrain them.
And he added unto him the children of Ammon, and Amalec: and he went and overthrew Israel, and possessed the city of palm wood.
As Samuel turned around to go, he caught hold of the hem of his garment, and it tore.
looking diligently know that no man among you in his law cometh short of the grace of God; lest some wormwood shall come up to be a burden unto you, and that some of you may be profaned by it;
for he was yet in the body of his father when Melchizedek met him.
and also I have caused him to be asked for Jehovah, all the days that he hath lived -- he is asked for Jehovah;' and he boweth himself there before Jehovah.
And afterward the children of Judah went down to battle against the Canaanites that lived in the hill country, and in the South, and in the Plain.
Then came the word of Jehovah unto Samuel, saying,
and they took their daughters as wives, and gave their daughters unto their sons, and served their gods.
At the time all vengeance seemeth to be anguish and not joy: But afterwards they that have been corrected by it be from it the peace-giving fruit of righteousness.
Abimelech was separate over Israel three years.
David arose also afterward, and went out of the cave, and cried after Saul, saying, My lord the king. And when Saul sought behind him, David stooped with his face to the earth, and bowed himself.
that ye may become blameless and harmless, children of God, unblemished in the midst of a generation crooked and perverse, among whom ye do appear as luminaries in the world,
`For redemption freemen in Israel, For a people willingly offered themselves Bless ye Jehovah.
And Michas spoken: Stay with me, and be unto me a father and a priest, and I will give thee every year ten pieces of silver, and a double suit of apparel, and thy victuals.
And the sons of Israel say, `Who he that hath not stand up in the assembly out of all the tribes of Israel unto Jehovah?' for the great curse, hath been concerning him that hath not come up unto Jehovah to Mizpeh, saying, `He is surely put to death.'
And all that day Abimelech fought against the city; and he took it, and slew the people that were therein, and had the city destroyed, and covered with salt.
And Manoah said unto the Angel of Jehovah, I pray thee, let us detain thee, and we shall prepare a kid of the goats for thee.
then he said, `Lo, I come to thee, O God, Thy will;' he doth take away the first that the second he may establish;
for a tabernacle was prepared, the first, wherein was both the lamp-stand, and the table, and the bread of the presence -- which is called `Holy;'
And it came to pass, when they were come, that he they esteemed Eliab and said, Surely the Lord's anointed is before him.
Then David said unto Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah brother of Joab, Who shall go down with me to the camp of Saul? And Abishai, said, I will go down with thee.
When I saw that thou didn't save me, I put my life in my hand, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Yahweh delivered them into my hand. Wherefore hast thou come up unto me this day, to battle against me?"
And she saith unto her father, `Let this thing be done unto me; desist from me two months, and I go over, and are gone down on the hills, and I weep for my virginity -- I and my friends.'
And Samuel cometh in unto Saul, and Saul saith unto him, `Blessed thou of Jehovah; I have performed the word of Jehovah.'
Be careful about nothing; but in all things by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let thy am be made known unto God;
But unbelieving it is impossible unto please him: for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a diligently rewarder of them that seek him.
So Gedeon went in, and boiled a kid, and made unleavened loaves of an ephah of flour: and the flesh in a basket, and the broth of the flesh into a pot, he carried all under the oak, and presented unto him.
And Eli blessed Elkanah, and his wife, and said, Jehovah give thee seed of this woman for the loan which is lent unto Jehovah. And they went to their own home.
and said unto her: How long wilt thou, be drunk? digest a little the wine, of which thou hast taken too much.
The men of Kiriath Jearim came, and took Yahweh's ark, and brought it into Abinadab's house upon the hill, and consecrated Eleazar his son to keep Yahweh's ark.
For it is impossible for them that were once enlightened, and have tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Ghost,
And he said unto the lad that led his steps: Suffer me to toucheth the pillars which candlestick the whole house, and let me lean upon them, and rest a little.
And God hearkened to the voice of Manoah; and the Angel of God came again to the woman whilst she sat in the field; but Manoah her husband was not with her.
And David said to Achish, If now I have found favour in thine eyes, let them give me a place in some country-town, that I may abide there; for why should thy servant abide in the royal city with thee?
And Gideon saith unto God, `Let not Thine measure, burning by against me, and I speak only this time; let me try, I pray Thee, only this time with the fleece -- let there be, I pray Thee, drought upon the fleece alone, and upon all the earth ye shall have dew.'
And he did valiantly, and smote the Amalekites, and David and delivered Israel out of the hand of their spoilers.
And the children of Israel arose and went up to Bethel, and inquired of God, and said, Which of us shall go up first to the battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah first.
And now, let not my blood fall to the earth far from the face of Jehovah; for the king of Israel is come out to seek a single flea, as when they hunt a partridge upon the mountains.
Consider him that hath borne so much of the hatred of sinners against himself, that ye may not be weary and weak of purpose.
and now, thy kingdom doth not stand, sought for Jehovah hath Himself a man according to his own heart, and Jehovah chargeth him for leader over His people; for thou hast not kept that which Jehovah commanded thee.'
Wherefore, even as saith the Holy Spirit, To-day if ye shall hear his voice,
And Michas filled his hand, and had the young man with him; For his priest, voice, saying,
And in the fields they saw an Egyptian, whom they brought unto David, and they gave him bread, and he had a meal, and they gave him water to drink:
Now therefore that which is under thy hand? Please give me five loaves of bread in my hand, or whatsoever is available."
And exposed his life to dangers, to deliver thee from the hand of Madian,
and had taken the women captives that were therein; both great and small: they had put none to death, but had carried them off, and went their way.
Then said Saul unto his armor bearer, "Draw thy sword, and thrust me through with it, lest these uncircumcised come and thrust me up, and abuse me!" But his armor bearer would not; for he was terrified. Therefore Saul took his sword, and fell upon it.
And she said, The glory is departed from Israel, because the ark of God was taken.
And all the people likewise cut down every man his bough, and followed Abimelech and put them to the hold, and set the hold on fire upon them; that all the men of the tower of Shechem died also, about a thousand men and women.
Don't consider thy servant a wicked woman; for I have been speaking out of the abundance of my complaint and my provocation."
The same night Jehovah said unto him, Take ten men of thy servants, and an ox seven years old, and after and brake down the altar of Baal, which is thy father's, and cut down the oaks by its side,
Sisera summoned all his chariotsall nine hundred ironand the chariots of entire host that was with him from Harosheth Haggoyim unto the wadi of Kishon.
Then the men of Israel turned back, and the men of Benjamin were amazed, for they perceived that disaster was upon them.
that by two unchangeable things, wherein [it was] impossible that God should lie, we might have a strong encouragement, that are fled for refuge to lay hold on the hope set before us,
And it cometh to pass, when the messenger of Jehovah speaketh these words unto all the sons of Israel, that the people lift up their voice, and weep,
So Saul put on other garments, that he should not be found the king, took two men with him, and went to the woman by night; and he said, Now with the help of the spirit which thou hast, make the soul whose name I will give thee come up.
And Elkanah went to Ramah, to his house. And the child did minister unto Jehovah before Eli the priest.
Arise, and let us go up to them: for we have seen the land which is exceeding rich and fruitful: neglect not, lose no time: let us go and possess it, there shall be no difficulty.
And Saul saith unto him, `Why have ye conspired against me, thou and the son of Jesse, by thy giving to him bread and a sword, and to ask for him at God, to rise against me, to lie in wait, as this day?'
And Judah went up; and Jehovah gave the Canaanite, and the Perizzite, into their hand; and they smote ten thousand of them in Bezek.
Then said he unto Zebah and Zalmunna, What manner of men were they whom ye slew at Tabor? And they answered, As thou art: so were they; each one resembled the children of a king.
(To whom it was spoken: In Isaac shall thy seed be called.)
And Samuel hath died, and all Israel mourn for him, and bury him in Ramah, even in his city, and Saul hath turned aside them having familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land.
Then Yahweh's Spirit fell on Jephthah, and he passed over Gilead, and Manasseh, and passed over Mizpah, of Gilead, and from Mizpah of Gilead he passed over to the children of Ammon.
And Jehovah saveth Israel in that day, and the battle hath passed over to Beth-Aven.
And Jehovah raiseth up judges, and they save them from the hand of their spoilers;
for they and their cattle come up, with their tents. they come in as the fulness of the locust for multitude, and of them, and of their cattle there is no number, and they come into the land to destroy it.
Saul summoned the host and mustered them at Telaim; two hundred thousand foot soldiers and ten thousand men of Judah.
And after the death of Joshua the Israelites inquired of Jehovah, saying, "Who shall go up first for us against the Canaanites to battle against them?"
The bow of the mighty is taken, and the weak are girt with strength.
And Saul thus saith unto that Michal `Why deceived me -- that thou hast thou dost send away mine enemy, and he is Michal escaped?' and saith unto Saul, `He said unto me, Send me away; why do I put thee to death?'
According to my earnest expectation and my hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness, as also Christ always, so now shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life, or by death.
And Jonathan said, My father hath troubled the land: behold, I pray thee, that mine eyes are dull white, because I tasted a little of this honey.
the end of the days did speak unto us in a Son, whom He appointed heir of all things, through whom also And he did make the ages;
A minister of the sanctuary, and of the true tabernacle, which Jehovah pitched, and not man.
For in [the power of] this the elders have obtained testimony.
For we are the circumcision, that worship God And to triumph in Jesus Christ, and have no trust in the flesh:
And he found a fresh jawbone of a donkey; he reached down and took it, and killed one thousand men with it.
Ask me never thou didst well that thou shared in my affliction.
for we have not here a abiding city, but we seek the coming one.
And the children of Israel prayed unto Jehovah; for he had nine hundred iron chariots, and for twenty years he was very ill with the children of Israel.
And Gideon seeth that He a messenger of Jehovah, and saith, Gideon `Alas, Lord Jehovah! because that I have seen a messenger of Jehovah face to face!'
Now the Midian and the Amalekite and all the inhabitants of the east were covered the valley like locusts; and their camels were as the sand by the seaside, without number.
And Saul summoneth the people, and inspecteth them in Telaim, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And they slew a bullock, and brought the child to Eli.
And he answer her: If I shall be bound with new ropes, that were not in work, I shall be weak and like other men.
A man of God came to Eli, and said unto him, "Yahweh saith, 'Did I reveal myself to the house of thy father, when they were in Egypt in bondage to Pharaoh's house?
And hath waited there from that time, until all that hate him are made a footstool for his feet.
And Jehovah was with Judah; and he drave out the inhabitants of the mountain: but could not drive out the inhabitants of the valley, because they had chariots of iron.
And Jehovah being angry with Israel, delivered them into the hand of Chusan Rasathaim king of Mesopotamia, and they served him eight years.
And all Israel went down to the Philistines, every man to take his ploughshare, and his hoe, and his axe, and his sickle sharpened,
Let not my lord the king, I pray, regard this Nabal: for naughty man according to his name, he is a fool, and folly is with him: but I thy handmaid did not see thy servants, my lord, whom thou sentest.
and above over it the cherubim of glory shadowing the mercy-seat; concerning which it is not now [the time] to speak in detail.
looking diligently lest any man fail of the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness That leapeth up trouble thee, and thereby the countries, and be defiled;
to whom also Abraham divided the tithe of all (being first, by interpretation, king of righteousness, and then also king of Salem which is king of peace;
And the children of Israel arose, and went up to the house of God, and asked counsel of God, and said, Which of us shall go up first to the battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up first.
David said moreover, Jehovah that delivered me out of the paw of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear, So he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
For it is God which worketh in thee both to shall and to do of his good will.
Then Jael Heber's wife took a tent peg, and took a maul, in her hand, and went softly unto him, and struck the pin into his temples, and it pierced through into the ground; for he was in a deep sleep; so he fainted and died.
God also bearing joint-witness both with signs and wonders, and manifold sorcery, and distributions of the Holy Spirit, according to his will.
but what things were gain unto me these I counted, by reason of Christ, damage.
And Jonathan cried again after the lad, voice, saying, Make haste speedily, stand not. And Jonathan's lad gathered up the arrows, and brought them unto his master,
But they slew of the Moabites at that time, about ten thousand and all strong and could Valiant men: none of them escape.
For if Joshua had given them to lie down, he would not have spoken concerning another day.
We can say that through Abraham even Levi, that receives tithes, hath paid tithes,
And the countries, and of the brethren in Jehovah, growing confident by my bands, are much more bold to speak the word of God with boldness.
Blessed among women be Jahel the wife of Haber the Cinite, and blessed be she in her tent.
But don't forget to be doing good, and sharing, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.
So the Philistine said unto David, "Am I a dog, that ye are coming unto me with sticks?" Then the Philistine devoted David by his gods.
And Manue said unto him: When thy word shall come to pass, what wilt thou that the child should do? or from what shall he keep alone?
He saith unto them, "What have I now done be compared unto thee? Isn't the gleaning of the grapes of Ephraim better than the vintage of Abiezer?
David said, "What have I now done? Is there not a cause?"
and as a covered shalt thou roll them up, and they shall I repent; but *thou* art the Same, and thy years shall not fail.
And after him Elon, a Zebulonite, judged Israel; and he judged Israel ten years.
And Samson reached out, and held two of the midst pillars whereon the house was, and he leaned upon them, one on his right hand and one on his left.
Then Samuel said unto the cook, "Bring the portion that I gave unto you, which I said unto thee, 'Keep it with you.'"
And he said, I have sinned; honor me now, I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and their purifications accomplished, again with me, that I may worship Jehovah thy God.
But now hath he obtained a more excellent ministry, by how much also he is the mediator of a better covenant, which was established upon better promises.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and encamped in Shunem; and Saul gathered all Israel together, and they encamped in Gilboa.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.
And Gaal went out before the citizens of Shechem, and fought against Abimelech.
And Gaal the son of Ebed went forth, and stood in the entrance of the gate of the city. Then Abimelech rose up, and the people that were with him, out of the ambush.
And they cried unto the children of Dan. And they turned their faces, and said unto Micah, What aileth thee, that thou comest with such a company?
Jehovah maketh poor, and maketh rich: he bringeth down, and lifteth up.
And Jair died, and was buried in Kamon.
But Adonibezek fled; and they pursued after him, and caught him, and cut off his thumb and his great toes.
"When Jacob was come into Egypt, and your fathers cried unto Jehovah, then Yahweh sent Moses and Aaron, who brought your fathers out of Egypt, and made them to dwell in this place.
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered together their hosts for warfare to battle against Israel. And Achish said unto David, Know thou assuredly that thou shalt go forth with me into the camp, thou and thy men.
And Nahash the Ammonite said unto them, I will make a covenant with thee on this estate; that all thy right eyes are put out that I may make it a reproach to all Israel.
And Gideon built there an altar unto Jehovah, and he called it "Yahweh is peace." To this day it is yet in Ophrah, of the Abiezrites.
And David son of this Ephrathite of Beth-Lehem-Judah, whose name Jesse, and he hath eight sons, and the man in the days of Saul hath become aged among men;
And the wagon came into the field of Joshua the Beth-shemeshite, and stood there; and a great stone was there. And they clave the wood of the cart, and offer up the kine for a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
For I know both how to be brought down, and For I know how to abound: (everywhere, and in all things I am instructed) both to be full, and to be hungry; both to abound, and to suffer need.
And the people came to Bethel, and abode there until even before God, and lifted up their voices, and wept bitterly,
Therefore also he is able to save utterly them that draw near to God through him, because he always lives in order unto intercede upon their behalf.
And we would that ye may all keep the same high purpose in certain hope to the end:
And he goeth up thence Penuel, and speaketh unto them thus; and the men of Penuel answer him as the men of Succoth answered.
And they gave the name of that place Bochim, and sacrificed there unto Jehovah.
He therefore let us offer sacrifice of thanksgiving continually unto God, that is, fruit of lips confessing his name.
Behold, of the noise of archers, in the places of drawing water, there shall they rehearse Yahweh's righteous deeds: the righteous acts of his dominion in Israel. "Then Yahweh's people went down to the gates.
And it cometh to pass when he finisheth speaking, that he casteth away the jaw-bone out of his hand, and calleth that place Ramath-Lehi;
Wherefore, holy brethren, which have five in heaven, consider Jesus the God-ward, and high priest of our faith;
But I rejoiced in Jehovah greatly that now at last thou hast renewed thy concern for me, for whom also ye were thinking, but thou hast not opportunity to express it.
And the youth hath not known Joseph's hand; only Jonathan and David knew the word.
When they came there to the hill, behold, a band of prophets met him; and the Spirit of God came mightily upon him, and he prophesied among them.
Now there was a man from Benjamin whose name was Kish the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Becorath, the son of Aphiah, the son of a Benjaminite, a very wealthy man.
Now Jephthah the Gileadite was a great man; For he was the son of a harlot, and Gilead, was his father.
Ephraim did not drive out the Canaanites that dwell in Gezer so the Canaanites lived in their midst in Gezer.
Then Saul said unto his servants, Bring me a woman that hath familiar a spirit that I may go unto her, and gather Jehovah. And his servants said unto him, There is such a woman at En-dor.
And Jehovah called Samuel. And he answered: Here am I.
And Elon the Zebulonite died and his body was gathered in Aijalon, in the land of Zebulun, twelve cities.
And it came to pass in process of time that the children of Ammon fought against Israel.
For this Melchizedek king of Salem priest of God Most High, that met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings and blessed him,
Rejoice in Jehovah always! Again I will say, "Rejoice!"
And David saved neither man nor woman alive, to bring tidings to Gath, saying, Lest they should tell upon us, saying, Thus did David, and so shall be his manner all the while he dwelleth in the country of the Philistines.
So David smote the Philistine with his leathern girdle and a stone, breaking the Philistine and so that he died: but David had no sword in his hand.
The bow of the mighty is broken, and they that stumbled are girded with strength.
But, beloved, we are persuaded of better things for thee, and things that accompany salvation, even though we speak as this.
And they set up for themselves the image which Micah had made, and it was there all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
And it cometh to pass, on the seventh day, that they say unto Samson's wife, `Entice thy husband, that he declare unto us the riddle, lest we burning by thee and the house of thy father with fire; to possess us have ye called for us? is it not?'
And the six hundred men of the children of Dan, girded with their weapons of war, stood at the entrance of the gate.
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, when Ehud, was dead.
And Jehovah saith unto the sons of Israel, `[Have I] not [saved you] from the Egyptians, and from the Amorite, from the Bene-Ammon, and from the Philistines?
And they say, `We surely give;' and they spread out the garment, and cast thither each the ring of his prey;
Did I begin to day to consult Jehovah for him? far be this from me: let not the king suspect such a thing against his servant, or any one in all my father's house: for thy servant knew nothing of this matter, either little or great.
And the sum concerning the things spoken of : we have such a chief priest, who did sit down at the right hand of the throne of the greatness in the heavens,
but they are preaching Christ in a spirit of factious, and not from their heart, but to give me conception; in my prison.
and he said unto the children of Israel, "Yahweh, the God of Israel, saith 'I brought Israel up out of Egypt, and I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all the kingdoms that oppressed you.'
And Yahweh said unto Gideon, "I shall deliver thee with the three hundred men lapping up the water; I will give Midian into thy hand, so let the other troops go, each unto his own place.
When Saul heard that David was discovered, and the men that were with him, (now Saul abode in Gibeah under a tree in Ramah, having his spear in his hand; and all his servants were standing about him;)
Now David was the son of that Ephrathite of Bethlehem Judah, whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons. The man was a elderly old man in the days of Saul.
And he said, What is the word that he hath spoken unto thee? I pray thee, keep it not back from me: God do so to thee, and more also, if thou keep back anything from me of all the word that he spoke unto thee.
The descendants of Judah fought against Jerusalem, and they captured it, and set it by the sword, and set the city on fire.
And they went up, and pitched in Kirjathjearim, in Judah: wherefore they called the name of that place Mahanehdan unto this day: behold, it is behind Kirjathjearim.
And David saith unto Saul, `Who I? and what my life -- the family of my father in Israel -- that I am son-in-law to the king?'
And the men of Benjamin did it, and gathered wives for themselves for every lamb of their number, taking them away out of the dance; then they returned to their inheritance, building up their cities and dwell in them.
And Jehovah said unto him, Behold, I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midian as if they were one man.
and Saul was Michal his daughter, wife unto David, to Phalti son of Laish, that of Gallim.
Then Jonathan said unto David, "Whatever thou wish, I will do to you."
(for the countries, and walked of whom I have told you often, and now tell thee even tears they the enemies of the cross of Christ:
And there came from over against Gibeah ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and the battle was severe; but they knew not that disaster was coming upon them.
So David and his men arose in the night, that they might set forward in the morning, and returned to the land of the Philistines; and the Philistines went up to Jezrahel.
Saul said, "No man shall be put to death to-day: for to-day Yahweh hath rescued Israel."
And the man rose up to depart, but his father-in-law urged him, and he lodged there again.
And it cometh to pass, in their coming in, in David's returning from smiting the Philistine, that the women come forth out of all the cities of Israel to sing -- also the dancers -- to meet Saul the king, with tabrets, with joy, and with three-stringed instruments;
Now Zebah and Zalmunna were in Karkor, and their camp with them, about fifteen thousand , all that were left of the whole camp of the children of the east; for there had fallen a hundred and twenty thousand men that drew sword.
But if not, thou a fire come out from Abimelech and let it devour the lords of Shechem and Beth-Millo; and let a fire come out from the lords of Shechem, and from Beth-Millo, and let it devour Abimelech."
As they went up the ascent to the city, they found young maidens going out to draw water, and said unto them, "Is the seer here?"
And Saul said unto David, thou, my son David: Blessed be thou shalt surely do [great things], and shalt surely prevail. And David went on his way, and Saul returned unto his place.
And he had a son whose name was Saul, choice and comely; and there was not among the children of Israel a comelier person than he; from his shoulders and upward he was higher than any of the people.
And, behold, as Barak pursued Sisera, Jael came out to meet him, and said unto him, Come, and I will shew thee the man whom thou seekest. And when he came into her tent, behold, Sisera lay dead, and the nail was in his temples.
And Jonathan smiteth the garrison of the Philistines which in Geba, and the Philistines hear, and Saul hath blown with a trumpet throughout all the land, saying, `Let the Hebrews hear.'
So then swear unto me of Yahweh that thou wilt not cut off my descendants after me, and that thou wilt not wipe out my name from my father's house."
and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Jehovah, to the glory of God the Father.
So the servants of Saul said unto him, "Look please, an evil spirit from God is tormenting thee.
And there was a certain man of Zoreah, of the family of the Danites that could set and his name was Manoah. And his wife was barren and did not bear.
And he shall take thy menservants, and thy maidservants, and thy goodliest young men, and thy asses, and put them to his work.
And Saul and his men go to seek, and they declare unto David, and he goeth down the rock, and abideth in the wilderness of Maon; and Saul heareth, and pursueth after David the wilderness of Maon.
And the men did so; they took two milking kine and harnessed them unto the utility cart, but they shut up their calves in the stall.
Let this mind be in thee which was in Christ Jesus,
In cursed still it new thing, he hath declared the former to be old. Now what is become obsolete and growing old is near to disappearing.
And the trees say to the fig, Come thou, reign over us.
Not that I am seeking sacrifice, but for fruit which may be put to thy credit.
Then said I; Behold I come: in the head of the book it is written of me: that I should do thy will, O God.
And the old man lifted up his eyes, and saw the man sitting with his bundles in the street of the city, and said unto him: Whence comest thou? and whither goest thou?
and I know that thou art not a Saviour, and I put my life in my hand, and pass over unto the Bene-Ammon, and Jehovah giveth them into my hand -- and wherefore have ye come up unto me this day to battle against me?'
and he catcheth Agag king of Amalek alive, and all the people he hath devoted by the mouth of the sword;
Now Eli was ninety and eight years old; and his eyes were dim, that he could not see.
And the sons of Benjamin say, `They are smitten before us, as at the beginning;' but the sons of Israel said, `Let us flee, and draw them away out of the city, unto the highways.'
Nahash the Ammonite said unto them, "On this state I will make it with thee, that all thy right eyes be gouged out. I will make this dishonor all Israel."
And the man rose up to depart, he, and his concubine, and his servant; and his father-in-law, the damsel's father, said unto him, Behold now, the day draws toward eveningI pray ye stay all night; behold, the day is declining, lodge hither, and let thy heart be merry; and to-morrow call thee early in the way, that thou mayest go to thy tent.
And ye have knowledge, Philippians, that, when the gospel first came unto you, when I went away from Macedonia, no church took part with me in the affairs of ministering to the saints, but thou alone;
And David said to Achimelech: Hast thou here at hand a Nor a sword? for I brought not my own sword, nor mine own weapons with me, for the king's business required haste.
Yahweh hath done unto thee, as he spoke by me. Yahweh hath torn the kingdom out of thy hand, and delivered it into thy neighbor, even unto David.
Barak called Zebulun and Naphtali together to Kedesh; and ten thousand men followed him; And Deborah went up with him.
The people, the men of Israel, encouraged themselves, and set the battle again in array in the place where they set themselves in array the first day.
But the righteous shall live by faith. If he shrinks again, my soul hath no pleasure in him."
esteeming the reproach of the Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt, for he had respect unto the recompense.
But the angel of Jehovah was found no more by Manoah and unto him: and he knew Manoah that he was the angel of Jehovah.
Now therefore come down, as thy soul hath desired to come down: and it shall be our business to deliver him into the king's hands.
whose voice then shook the earth; but now he hath promised, saying, *I* Yet once shall shake not only the earth, but also the heaven.
So we know that they could not enter in by reason of unbelief.
And the Philistines are gathered, and come in, and encamp in Shunem, and Saul gathereth all Israel, and they encamp in Gilboa,
The men of Ephraim said unto him, "What is this thing thou hast done unto us, not cursed still us when ye went to battle against the Midianites?" And they quarreled with him severely.
I can do all these things on him that strengtheneth me.
For we made a invasion on the side of Cerethi, and upon Juda, and upon the south of Caleb and we burnt Siceleg with fire.
The man departed out of the city, out of Bethlehem Judah, to live where he could find a place, and he came to the hill country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, as he traveled.
and a strong tower hath been in the midst of the city, and thither flee do all the men and the women, and all the masters of the city, and they shut behind them, and go up upon the roof of the tower.
And Samuel said unto Saul: Why hast thou disturbed my rest, that I should be brought up? And Saul said, I am in great distress: for the Philistines battle against me, and God is departed from me, and would not hear me, neither by the hand of prophets, nor by dreams: therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest shew me what I shall do.
and `their sins, and their lawlessness I will remember no more;'
All Israel heard that Saul had struck the garrison of the Philistines, and also that Israel was had in abomination with the Philistines. The people were gathered together after Saul to Gilgal.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried out with a loud voice: and the woman spoke unto Saul, saying, Why hast thou deceived me? Even thou art Saul.
Return therefore, and go in peace, and offend not the eyes of the princes of the Philistines.
The Gazites were told, "Samson is here!" They surrounded him, and laid wait for him all night in the gate of the city, and kept silence; all the night, saying, "Wait until morning light, then we will kill him."
Concerning the matter which thou and I have spoken of, both behold, Yahweh is between me and thee forever."
wherefore, a kingdom that cannot be shaken receiving, shall we have grace through which we may serve God well-pleasingly, with reverence and religious afraid;
And Jonathan saith unto David, `Come, and we go forth into the field;' and they go out both of them into the field.
and the sons of Israel serve Eglon king of Moab eighteen years.
And therefore I have sworn unto the house of Eli that the iniquity of Eli's house shall not be expiated with sacrifice or oblation for ever.
They blew the trumpets, three hundred Yahweh and set every man's sword against his fellow, and against all the host; and the host fled as far as Beth Shittah toward Zererah, even unto the border of Abel Meholah, by Tabbath.
Some even because of jealousy and strife preach Christ, but some also because of good will.
and the messenger of Jehovah hath not added again to appear unto Manoah, and unto his wife, then Manoah hath known that He a messenger of Jehovah.
Then David said, Shall the men of Keilah give me and my men up to Saul? and Jehovah said, They will forsake you.
Ye endure for chastening, God conducts himself towards thee as towards sons; for who is the son that the father chastens not?
Curse ye the land of Meroz, said the angel of Jehovah: curse the inhabitants thereof, because they came not to succor of Jehovah, to help his most valiant men.
And the sons of Benjamin do so, and take women according to their number, out of the dancers whom they have taken violently away; and they go, and their purifications accomplished, back unto their inheritance, and build the cities, and dwell in them.
and thy harvest, and thy vineyards, and thy olive-yards -- fine -- he doth be? and hath given unto his servants.
For I have told him that I will judge his house for ever for the iniquity which he knoweth; because his sons sanctified vile, and he restrained them not.
The people grieved for Benjamin, because Yahweh had made a breach in the tribes of Israel.
So in the day of the battle at Michmash, not a sword or a spear was found in the hand of any of the people that are with Saul and Jonathan: only Saul and Jonathan his son had them.
He sent messengers to Abimelech craftily, saying, "Behold, Gaal the son of Ebed and his brethren are come to Shechem; and behold, they incite the city against thee.
for where a covenant , the death of the covenant-victim to come in the word of
And Gideon went in, and prepared a kid of the goats, and an ephah of flour in unleavened cakes: the flesh he put in a basket, and he put the broth in a pot, and brought it out to him under the terebinth, and presented it.
So then please pardon my sin and return with me that I can Yahweh." worship
"And when ye saw that Nahash, the king of the Ammonites, came against thee, thou said unto me, 'No! A king shall reign over us,' although Yahweh thy God is thine anointed.
Then David said, Here is the king's spear! let one of the young men come over and fetch it.
The children of Judah fought against Jerusalem, took it, struck it with the edge of the sword, and set the city on fire.
thou didst love righteousness, and didst hatred lawlessness; because of this did He anoint thee -- God, thy God -- with oil of gladness above thy partners;'
So Hannah rose up after they had eaten in Shiloh, and after they had drunk. Now Eli the priest sat upon a throne by a post of the temple of Jehovah.
And the people served Yahweh all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, that saw all the great work Yahweh had done for Israel.
And thrust it into the kettle, or into the caldron, or into the pot; or into the pan: and all that the fleshhook brought up the priest took unto himself. Thus did they to all Israel that came to Silo.
And he said unto his men: The Lord be merciful unto me, that I may do no such thing to my master the Lord's anointed, as to lay my hand upon him, because he is the Lord's anointed.
Jephthah judged Israel, six years. Then Jephthah the Gileadite died, and he was buried in one of the cities of Gilead.
that in the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of them that are in heaven, upon earth, and under the earth:
Then Samuel said unto Saul, more! Murmur not, I pray you, word of saith the Lord Jehovah unto me this night. And he said unto him, Say on.
And Samson -- goeth down also his father and his mother, to Timnath, and they come unto the vineyards of Timnath, and lo, a lion's whelp roareth at meet him,
And Josue sent away the people, and the children of Israel went every one to his own possession to hold it:
And he said, And what went Samuel say unto thee?
But if it bringeth up thorns and tares, it is vain and is ready to be anathema; its only end shall be burnt.
Moreover we have had the fathers of our flesh as reverenced ; chasteners, and we shall we not much rather be in subjection to the Father of spirits, and live?
And David and his men went to Keilah, and fought against the Philistines, and brought away their cattle, and smote them with a great slaughter. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
So they cried out to Yahweh and said, 'We have sinned, because we have forsaken Yahweh and have served the Baalim and the Ashtoreths. But now deliver us from the hand of our enemies and we will serve you!'
And Samuel answer Saul, voice, saying, I am the seer, go up before me to the high place, that ye may eat with me to day, and I will bring thee walk in the morning: and tell thee all that is in thy heart.
And it was told the Gazites, saying, Samson is come hither. And they compassed him in, and laid wait for him all night in the gate of the city, and kept silence; all the night, saying, In the morning, when it is day, we shall kill him.
For he sought for a city which hath foundations, whose the builders, and former is God.
If he say thus, Well; thy servant shall have peace: but if he be very wroth, then be sure that wickedness is determined by him.
And I thought necessary Epaphroditus -- my brother, and fellow-workman, and fellow-soldier, and thy apostle and servant unto my need -- to send unto you,
of how much sorer vengeance shall he be counted worthy that the Son of God did trample and the blood of the covenant did count a common thing, wherein he was sanctified, and to the Spirit of the grace did despite?
And they went through the wilderness, and went around the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east side of the land of Moab, and they encamped on the other side of the Arnon; but they didn't come within the border of Moab, for the Arnon was the border of Moab.
And Saul said unto Ahijah, Let the ephod come hither. For he went before Israel with the ephod at that time.
Then said Saul unto the people that were with him, "Count now, and see that is missing from us." When they were counted, behold, Jonathan and his armor bearer were not there.
and the princes of the Philistines are passing on by hundreds, and by thousands, and David and his men are passing upon in the rear with Achish.
that I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, and served conformed to his death;
And they buried him in the borders of his possession in Thamnathsare in mount Ephraim, on the north side of mount Gaas.
And with whom was he wroth forty years, [Was it] not with them that had sinned, whose carcases fell in the wilderness?
So Ehud, made himself a two-edged sword, a cubit long, which he put on at his right side under his robe.
So Gideon and the hundred men that were with him came to the edge of the camp at the beginning of the midst night-watch, when they had finished just setting up the guards, and they blew upon the trumpets and found among the jars that were in their hands.
And it came to pass, while the ark abode in Kirjathjearim, that the time was grown; for it was twenty years: and all the house of Israel lamented after Jehovah.
But one man of thy house shall not be cut off in my hand, and his eyes shall be made darkness, and affliction shall be in his heart: and all the seed of thy house shall die by the sword, of men.
And Jehovah sent Jerobaal, and Badan, and Jephte, and Samuel, and delivered thee from the hand of your enemies round about, and ye dwelt securely.
Isn't it wheat harvest to-day? I will call unto Jehovah, that he may send thunder and rain; and ye shall know and know that thy wickedness is great, which thou hast done in Yahweh's sight, in asking for a king."
They were stoned, and they were cut up with knives, they were tempted, they were slay with the sword, they went about in rams' skins and in goatskins; being poor and in pain and they shall afflict suffer wrong,
The woman quickly ran and told her husband, and she said unto him, "Look! The man that came unto me the other day appeared unto me."
But Barak pursued after the chariots and host as far as Harosheth Haggoyim, and all of Sisera's host fell to the edge of the sword; none was left.
And Saul said, There shall not a man be put to death this day: for unto day Jehovah hath wrought salvation in Israel.
And the children of Judah fought against Jerusalem, and took it, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and set the city on fire.
And Samson went and caught three hundred jackals, and took torches, and turned tail, to tail, and put a torch in the midst between the two tails.
that ye be not slothful, but followers of them that through faith and inherit the patience promises.
So his father went down unto the woman's hand: and Samson made there glad: for so used the young men to be exercised therewith.
And the Philistines gathered together all their hosts unto Aphek; and Israel encamped by the latter that is in Jizreel.
Now therefore, I pray thee, let my lord the king hear the words of his servant. If Jehovah, have stirred thee up against me, let him accept an offering: but if they be the children of men, cursed be they before Jehovah; for they have driven me out this day from abiding in the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my lot, and let us battle against the Canaanites, and I likewise shall go with thee into thy lot; and Simeon, went with him.
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I pursue after this troop? shall I overtake them? And he said unto him, Pursue; for assuredly overtake and shalt thou shalt surely recover.
He stayed seven days, according to the time set by Samuel; but Samuel didn't come to Gilgal, and the people were scattering from him.
Shew yourselves valiant and be men, ye Philistines, that ye may not have to serve the Hebrews, as they have been servants unto you: be men, and battle.
but we see Jesus, who made some little inferior to angels by reason of the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor: that by the grace of God he should taste death for every thing.
And David smote the land, and left neither man nor woman alive, and took away the ram, and oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the apparel, and returned, and came to Achish.
For by one offering he hath perfected forever them that are sanctified.
And the children of Israel put away Baalim and Astaroth, and served Jehovah only.
Behold, here I am: witness against me before Jehovah, and before his anointed: whose ox have I taken? or whose ass have I taken? or whom have I defrauded? whom have I oppressed? or of his hand, I received any bribe to blind mine eyes therewith? and I will restore it thee.
O Jehovah God of Israel, why is so great an evil come to pass in thy people, that this day one tribe should be taken away from among us?
And Saul said, I will give her unto him, that she may be danger to him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him. So Saul said unto David, To-day thou shalt become my son-in-law for the second time.
For For I know that this shall fall out unto me unto salvation through thy prayer, and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
Saul therefore took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went out to seek after David, and his men, even upon the most craggy rocks, which are accessible only to wild goats.
as it is meet for me to think this for you all, for that I have you in my heart; and that in my bands, and in the defence and confirmation of the gospel, ye all are partakers of my joy.
And they found an Egyptian, in the field, and brought him to David; and they gave him bread to eat, and water to drink,
Therefore, since we also have such a great cloud of witnesses surrounding put aside every weight and the sin that so easily ensnares us, let us run with patient endurance the race that hath been set before us,
And Gideon took ten men of his servants, and did as Jehovah had spoken unto him. And it came to pass, because he feared his father's house, and the men of the city, if he did it by day, that he did it by night.
Blessed above women shall Jael the wife of Heber, the Kenite be, shall she be blessed above women in the tent.
Then the messenger answer and said, "Israel hath fled before the Philistines. There hath been a great defeat among the troops. Also, thy two sons have died, Hophni and Phinehas and the ark of God hath been captured."
we have an altar, whereof to eat they have no authority that the tabernacle are serving,
And the priests' way with the house was this, when any man made sacrifice, the priest's servant came while the flesh was being cooked, having in his hand a meat-hook with three teeth;
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Saul, when he had heard these words, and his measure, was exceedingly kindled.
When they entered the land of Zuph, Saul said unto his servant that was with him, "Come, let us return, lest my father cease carried about the female donkeys and worry about us!"
In those days was there no king in Israel. Every one did that which was right in his own eyes.
Then Abishai said unto David, "God hath committed thy enemy into thy hand today! So then please let me pin him to the ground with the spear one time, and I will not strike him twice."
Now the garrison of the Philistines went out to the pass of Micmash.
To them that were in Bethel, and that were in Ramoth toward the south, and to them that were in Jether,
The trees once went forth to anoint a king over them; and they said unto the olive-tree, Reign over us.
And some out of contention preach Christ not sincerely: supposing that they raise affliction unto my and their fillets, of silver.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he began to judge of Israel, and went out to battle, and Jehovah gave up Cushan-rishathaim, king of Mesopotamia, into his hands and he smote him.
His armor bearer said unto him, "Do all that is in thy heart. Turn and, behold, I am with you according to thy heart."
And he had two wives, the name of the one was Anna, and the name of the other Phenenna. Phenenna had children: but Anna was barren.
And as she was dying, the women that stood by her said, Fear not; for thou hast borne a son. But she did not answer, neither did she lay it to heart.
looking out upon the side of the she cried out, the mother of Sisera was cried through the window, Why is his chariot so long in coming? When shall the noise of his wheels be sounding?
And the children of Dan set up the graven image; and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Manasseh, he and his sons were priests unto the tribe of Dan until the day of the captivity of the land.
Some indeed, even out of jealousy and contention; But some also for good shall preach Christ.
And Ehud, hath escaped during their tarrying, and passed by the teraphim, and is escaped to Seirath.
Saul swore to her by Jehovah, saying, "As Yahweh lives, no punishment will happen unto you for this thing."
taking a place by so much better than the angels, as he inherits a name more excellent than they.
So on that day Yahweh delivered Israel, and the battle shifted to Beth Aven.
For by it the elders obtained a good report.
This will we do, if God permits.
And he returned after awhile to marry her, and he turned aside to see the carcass of the lion, and there was a wild honey swarm of bees in the body of the lion, and honey.
And when the lad came unto the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot, Jonathan cried after the lad and said, Is not the arrow away beyond thee?
[It is] word therefore, the pattern indeed of the things in the heavens to be purified these take, and the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these;
And are fallen away: to be renewed again to penance, crucifying again to themselves the Son of God, and make him a mockery.
and now, my lord, Jehovah liveth, and thy soul liveth, in that Jehovah hath withheld thee from coming in with blood, and to save thy hand to thee -- therefore let thine enemies be as Nabal, even they seeking evil unto my lord.
But now bear, So I beseech thee, mine iniquity, And return with me, that I may adore Jehovah.
And Samuel manifested at all the tribes of Israel to come near to come, and the tribe of Benjamin, was taken.
And he saith unto her, `Stand at the dedication of the tent, and it hath been if any doth come in, and hath asked thee, and said, Is there a man here, that thou hast said, There is not.'
David asked him, "To whom do ye belong? Where are ye from?" He said, "I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite; and my master left me; for three days ago I bought sick.
And the wagon came into the field of Joshua the Beth-shemite, and came to they tarried there by a great stone: and cut up the wood of the wagon they made a burnt-offering of the kine unto Jehovah.
Then the commanders of the Philistines went out to battle, and as often as they went out, David succeeded more than all the servants of Saul, and his name became very esteemed.
And the angel of Jehovah came up from Gilgal to Bochim, and said, I made thee to go up out of Egypt, and have brought thee unto the land which I sware unto thy fathers; and I said, I shall never break my covenant with thee.
And when Gideon perceived that he was an angel of Jehovah, Gideon said, Alas, O Lord Jehovah! for because I have seen an angel of the Lord face to face.
He saith unto them, "Yahweh is witness against thee, and his anointed is witness this day, that ye have not found anything in my hand." They said, "He is witness."
Now when they heard these words that the angel of Jehovah said unto all the children of Israel, the people sold themselves to roaring and them that weep.
But the people took of the plunder, sheep and cattle, the chief of the devoted things, to sacrifice to Yahweh thy God in Gilgal."
And I said unto you, 'I am Yahweh thy God; thou shalt not fear the gods of the Amorites, in that thou shalt living.' But thou hast not listened unto my voice."
Then Achish gave him Ziklag, that day; therefore Ziklag, belongs unto the kings of Judah unto this day.
And when the people saw him, they commended their god; for they said, Our god hath given into our hand our enemy, and the destroyer of our country, even him that multiplied our slain.
The one crag on the north quarter was over against Micmash and the other on the south was over against Gibeon.
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath taken away the kingdom of Israel from thee this day for a prey, and gave it unto a neighbor of thine that is better than thou.
And Saul said, Go forth among the people, and say unto them, Let each man come hither to me with his ox and a sheep, and slew them hither, and take his meal: not sin against Jehovah with the blood with the flesh. And the assembly brought their bullocks with them that night and slew them there.
Nevertheless, unto the extent that we have already attained, let us walked by the same reign. Let us be of the same mind.
And the Israelites went up against the descendants of Benjamin on the third day, and they took up ordering against Gibeah as aforetime.
God hath given into thy hand the commanders of Midian, Oreb, and Zeeb. What have I been able to do in the least of you?" And their measure, against him subsided when he said that.
And these went into Micah's house, and fetched the carved image, the ephod and the teraphim, and the molten image. Then said the priest unto them, What seest ye?
For the priesthood being turn, there is of necessity repentance made also in the law.
For our citizenship is in heaven, from where we also wait for a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ;
He had two wives with thee. The name of one was Hannah, and the name of other Peninnah. Peninnah had children, but Hannah was barren.
And the children of Israel murmured unto Jehovah, saying, Great is our sin against thee, for we have forsaken our God and have been servants to the Baalim.
So the people sent to Shiloh, and they brought from thence the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, that sitteth between the cherubim; and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas were there by the ark of the covenant of God.
that hath no necessity daily, as the chief priests, first for his own sins to offer up sacrifice, then for them of the people; for this he did once, having offer up himself.
As faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months by his parents; because they saw he was a comely babe, and they feared not the king's edict.
So David checked his men with these words, and didn't allow them to rise against Saul. Saul rose up out of the cave, and went his way.
And David said to Ahimelech the priest, the king hath commanded me and hath said unto me, to any concerning the business whereon I send thee and the which I command you: and a certain place he hath appointed unto which the young men shall go.
And they said, There must be an inheritance for them that be escaped of Benjamin, that a tribe be not destroyed out of Israel.
And Saul having his kingdom established over Israel, fought against all his enemies round about, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and Edom, and the kings of Soba, and the Philistines; and whithersoever he turned himself, he smote.
And Abimelech came to the tower, and fought against it, and he drew near unto the entrance of the tower to burning by it with fire;
And what shall I speak? For the time would yet fail me to tell of Gedeon, Barac, Samson, Jephthe, David, Samuel, and the prophets:
And when all the men of the tower of Shechem heard that, they entered into an hold of the house of the god Berith.
and prospered over thee hath the Spirit of Jehovah, and thou hast prophesied with them, and hast turned to another man;
But Christ as a son over his own house; whose house are we, if we hold fast the confidence and the rejoicing of the hope firm unto the end.
And David goeth thence, and is escaped unto the cave of Adullam, and his brethren hear, and all the house of his father, and go down unto him thither;
Then the Levite, the husband of the woman that was murdered, answer and said, I came to Gibeah that to Benjamin, I and my concubine, to lodge.
So ran to the Philistine and laying his foot upon him, David took his sword out of its sheath, and put him to death, and will cut off his head with it. And when the Philistines saw that the fighter was dead, they fled.
Let thy tender us how ye know all men. Jehovah is at hand.
For if the blood of goats and oxen, and the dust from the burning of a young heifer being put on the and fill the flesh clean:
For the priesthood being turn, there is made of necessity repentance also of the law.
And David exceedingly fell upon the land until not a man or woman was alive; and he took away the sheep and the oxen and the asses, upon the camels, and the raiment: and he returned to Achish.
And David sweareth again, and saith, `Thy father hath surely known that I have found favor in thine eyes, and he saith, Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved; and yet, Jehovah liveth, and thy soul liveth, but -- as a step between me and death.'
The children of Dan said unto him, "Don't lift up thy voice be heard among us, lest angry fellows fall upon you, and ye lose thy life, and the lives of thy household."
Now the Philistines gathered together their hosts to battle; and they were gathered themselves together at Socoh, which belongs to Judah, and encamped between Socoh and Azekah, in Ephesdammim.
And now, I pray thee, forgive mine iniquity, And their purifications accomplished, again with me, that I may worship Jehovah.
If the man said unto him, They shall immediately burning by the fat entire, then take as thy soul desires; he would say [to him], Nay; but thou shalt give now: and if not, I will take for himself.
For there is verily a disannulling of the commandment going before for the weakness and unprofitableness thereof.
The Amorites, pressed the descendants of Dan to the hill country, and they did not allow them to come down to the plain;
Wherefore, the hanging-down hands and the loosened knees set ye up;
David answer the priest, and said unto him, "Indeed, women were held back from us, as it hath been when I've gone out aforetime. And the things of the young men are holy when it is an ordinary way. How much more this day shall the things be holy?"
He was content, and abode with the man, and was unto him as one of his sons.
And Gideon said unto him, Why make ye trial my Lord, if Jehovah be with us, why then is all this befallen us? and where be all his miracles which our fathers told us of, both saying, Did not Jehovah bring us up from Egypt? but now Jehovah hath forsaken us, and delivered us into the hand of the Midianites.
But if unjustly: let fire come out from him, and consume the inhabitants of Sichem, and the city of Mello: and let fire come out from the men of Sichem, and from the city of Mello, and devour Abimelech.
Now between the narrow paths over the mountains whereby Jonathan was making his way to the Philistines' forces, there was a sharp overhanging rock on the one side, and a sharp rock on the other side, one was called Bozez and the other Seneh.
Therefore he was obligated in all things to be made like his brethren, that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make atonement for the sins of the people.
In nothing be anxious, but in all things by prayer and petition with thanksgiving, let thy am be made known unto God.
and to them in Aroer, and to them in Siphmoth, and to them in Eshtemoa,
quenched power of fire, escaped edge of the sword, was established out of weakness, became mighty in war, made hosts of strangers give way.
and in this passage again, 'They shall not enter into my rest.'"
Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, withholden before Jehovah; his name was Doeg, an Edomite; the mightiest of Saul's runners.
And Saul said, I will give him her, that she may be a snare unto him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him. Wherefore Saul said unto David, Thou shalt this day be my son in law in the one of the twain.
And Saul said unto the people that were with him: Look, and see that is gone from us. And when they had sought, it was found that Jonathan and his armourbearer were not there.
After he left hand, his servants returned. When they saw that the gates of the upper chamber were locked, they device, "Surely he is relieving himself in the cool inner room."
They ran and took him there. When he stood among the people, he was higher than any of the people from his shoulders and upward.
For surely he is not concerned with angels, but he is concerned with the descendants of Abraham.
Wherefore coming into the world he saith, Sacrifice and offering thou willedst not; but thou hast prepared me a body.
Jehovah dispossesseth, and He maketh rich, He maketh down, yea, He maketh high.
and Saul seeth the camp of the Philistines, and feareth, and his heart trembleth greatly,
Jotham ran away, and fled, and went to Beer: that is and lived there, for fear of Abimelech his brother.
When Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled to David unto Keilah, he came down with an ephod in his hand.
And Micah consecrated the Levite; and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
And the sons of Dan say unto him, `Let not thy voice be heard with us, lest men bitter in soul fall upon thee, and thou hast gathered thy life, and the life of thy household;'
He said, 'Send me away, please, for our clan sacrifice is in the city, and my brother commanded me to be present. So then if I have found favor in thy sight, please let me slip away, and see my brothers.' Therefore he hath not come to the table of the king."
So Delilah said unto Samson, "Please tell me what maketh thy strength so great, and with what can thou be tied up to subdue you?"
A man of Benjamin ran from the battle border and came to Shiloh, the same day, and his clothes were torn and earth was upon his head.
and another company turned the way to Beth-horon; and the other company turned the way to the district that looks over the ravine of Zeboim toward the wilderness.
For if that first covenant had been faultless, then should no place have been sought for the second.
In the morning, Jonathan went out into the field at the time appointed with David, and a little lad with him.
Then Saul said, "So may God do unto me, and more, thou shalt surely die this day, Jonathan!"
And Samson called unto Jehovah, and said, Lord Jehovah, remember me, I pray thee, and strengthen me, I pray thee, only this once, O God, that I may take one vengeance upon the Philistines for my two eyes.
And Samuel said, Though thou mayest seem little to thyself, are ye not head of the tribes of Israel? for Jehovah they anointed thee king over Israel,
The torrent of Cison dragged their carcasses, the torrent of Cadumim, the torrent of Cisoii: tread thou, my soul, upon the strong ones.
And after him Abdon, the son of Hillel, a Pirathonite, judged Israel.
For the law made nothing perfect, but the bringing in of a better hope have committed; therefore by the which we draw nigh unto God.
And Ibzan dieth, and is buried in Beth-Lehem.
And Samuel goeth to Ramath, and Saul hath gone unto his house -- to Gibeah of Saul.
He therefore I hope to send presently, so soon as I shall see how it shall go with me.
Then Jerubbaal, that is Gideon, and all the people that were with him, rose up early, and pitched beside the well of Harod: so that the host of the Midian were on the north side of them, by the hill of Moreh, in the valley.
which was a symbol for the present time, wherein both the gifts and sacrifices that were offer could not perfect the worshiper with respect unto the conscience,
Now David came to Nob, to Ahimelech the priest. And Ahimelech came trembling to meet David, and he said unto him, "Why art thou alone and there shall be no men with you?"
And Judah goeth with Simeon his brother, and they Zephath, and smite the Canaanite, inhabiting devote it; and calleth the name of the city Hormah.
To whom did he wouldn't swear that they enter into his rest, but to them that were disobedient?
And the men of the tribe of Juda said unto them: Why art thou come up against us? They answered: We are come to bind Samson, and to pay him for that which he hath done against us.
Then David arose, and fled that day for fear of Saul, and went to Achish, the king of Gath.
In that he saith New, he hath made the first old; but that which grows old and aged near disappearing.
And they ran and fetched him thence: and when he stood among the people, he was higher than any of the people from his shoulders and upward.
And he said unto them, Thus saith the Lord is witness against thee, and his anointed is witness this day, that ye have not found any thing in my hand. And they said, He is the testimony.
Jesus Christ the same yesterday, and to day, and for ever.
Whose voice then moved the earth; but now he promiseth, voice, saying, Yet once more, and I will out not only the earth, but heaven also.
And the king said unto the messengers that stood concerning him: Turn, and kill the priests of Jehovah, for their hand is with David, because they knew that he was fled, and they told it not unto me. And the king's servants would not put forth their hands against the priests of Jehovah.
`And now, thou at all better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? did he at all strive with Israel? did he at all battle against them?
All that were numbered of them that lapped, and their hand to their mouth, was three hundred men; but all the residue of the people bowed down upon their knees to drink water.
Gideon saw that he was Yahweh's angel; and Gideon said, "Alas, Lord Yahweh! Because I have seen Yahweh's angel face to face!"
See that ye refuse him not that speaketh. For if they refused him that escaped not that spoke upon the earth, much more shall not we, that turning away from him that speaketh unto us from heaven.
For there was the fear of death in every city, and the hand of God was exceeding heavy. The men also that did not die, were afflicted with the emerods: and the cry of every city went up to heaven.
How much more if the people had eaten of the prey of their enemies, which they found? had there not been made a greater slaughter among the Philistines?
When the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice: and the woman spoke unto Saul, saying, "Why hast thou deceived me? For thou art Saul!"
And it came to pass on the morrow, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, that they found Saul and his three sons fallen in mount Gilboa.
Samuel said, "As thy sword hath made women childless, so thy mother shall be childless among women!" Then Samuel cut Agag in pieces before Yahweh in Gilgal.
But Jonathan had not heard when his father adjured the people: and he put forth the end of the rod, which he had in his hand, and dipt it in a honeycomb: and he carried his hand to his mouth, and his eyes were enlightened.
thou subjected all things under his feet. For in subjecting all things, he left nothing that was not subject unto him. But now we do not yet see all things subjected unto him,
Then Gideon son of Jehoash returned from the battle by way of the ascent of Heres.
As they came, when David returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul, with tambourines, with joy, and with and harp.
having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus,
The men of Beth Shemesh said, "Who is able to stand before Jehovah, this holy God? to whom shall he go up from us?"
And ye shall not neglect doing good, and generosity, for God is pleased with such sacrifices.
And he said unto the men of Penuel When I return in peace, will I have this tower broken down.
having called by God a high priest of the order of Melchizedek.
And he laid his life in his hand, and slew the Philistine, and Jehovah wrought great salvation for all Israel. Thou sawest it, and didst rejoice. Why therefore wilt thou have sinned against innocent blood by killing David, that is void of fault?
And he had thirty sons, that journeyed thirty young asses, and they had thirty cities in the land of Gilead, which are called them, even unto this day.
Be imitators together of me, brethren, and fix thine eyes upon them walking thus as thou hast us for a model;
If I shall say unto the boy: Behold the arrows are on this side of thee, bring them up; come thou unto me, seeing there is peace to thee, and there is no evil, as Jehovah liveth. But if I shall speak thus unto the boy: Behold the arrows are beyond thee: go in peace, for Jehovah hath sent thee away.
to them in Bethel, and to them in south Ramoth, and to them in Jattir,
And the first smiting which Jonathan and the bearer of his weapons have smitten is of about twenty men, in about half a furrow of a yoke of a field,
Now art thou anything better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? Did he ever strive against Israel, or did he ever battle against them?
He came to the men of Succoth, and said, "See Zebah and Zalmunna, concerning whom thou taunted me, saying, 'Are the hand of Zebah and Zalmunna now in thy hand, that we should give bread to thy men that are weary?'"
And the king said unto the footmen that stood about him, Turn, and slay the priests of Jehovah: because their hand also is with David, and because they knew when he fled, and did not shew it unto me. But the servants of the king would not put forth their hand to fall upon the priests of Jehovah.
And when the servants of David were come to Abigail to Carmel, they spake unto her, saying, David sent us unto thee, to take thee unto him to wife.
But six hundred men turned and fled toward the wilderness unto the rock of Rimmon, and stayed in the rock of Rimmon four months.
Yahweh's measure, burned against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the children of Ammon.
The Philistines assembled themselves together to battle with Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and people as the sand which is on the seashore in multitude. They came up, and encamped in Michmash, eastward of Beth Aven.
And when they were come in, he saw Eliab and said, Is the Lord's anointed before him?
Then Abigail made haste, and took two hundred loaves, and two bottles of wine, and five sheep dressed, and five measures of parched corn, and an hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred loaves of figs, and laid them on asses.
Ask me never the hair of his head began to grow again after that he was shaved.
And Jehovah sent Jerubbaal and Bedan and Jephthah and Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies round about, that ye dwelt in safety.
And they said, Which one of the tribes of Israel did not come up to Mizpah, to Jehovah? And it was seen that none were come out of Jabesh-gilead, unto the meeting.
for in this were the elders testified of;
And when he shewed them the entrance into the city, they smote the city with the edge of the sword; but they let go the man and all his house.
And Samuel declareth unto him the whole of the words, and hath not hid from him; and he saith, `It Jehovah; that which is good in His eyes He doth.'
For the law, having a shadow of the good to come, not the very image of the things, can never with the same sacrifices year by year, which they offer continually, make perfect them that draw at hand.
Let my lord the king hearken now to the words of his servant. If it is Jehovah that is provoke thou against me, let him take an offering: but if it is the children of men, shall they be devoted before Jehovah; for drive me out to-day and keep me from my place in the portion of Jehovah, saying, Go, be the servant of other gods.
And Jephte passed over to the children of Ammon, to battle against them: and Jehovah delivered them into his hand.
I have sent him, therefore the more of mine own will, that when ye see him again, ye may rejoice and I may have the less sorrow.
And they told Saul, saying, "Behold, the people transgress against Jehovah, in that they eat flesh with the blood." He said, "You have dealt treacherously. Roll a large stone unto me today!"
And he speaketh also to the men of Penuel saying, `In my turned back in peace, I break down this tower.'
They sent therefore and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines, and said, "What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel?" They answered, "Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried over to Gath." They carried the ark of the God of Israel there.
And Yahweh defeated Benjamin in the presence of Israel, and the Israelites destroyed on that day five and twenty thousand a hundred men of Benjamin, all of them sword-wielding.
And Micah saith unto him, `Whence comest thou?' and he saith unto him, `A Levite I, of Beth-Lehem-Judah, and I go to sojourn where I do find.'
And when Saul was come to the city of Amalec, he laid ambushes in the torrent.
When the men of Israel that were on the other side of the valley, and they that were beyond the Jordan, that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they abandoned the cities and fled; and the Philistines came and lived in them.
Not according to the covenant which I sware unto their fathers in the day that I brought them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt: because they continued not in my testament: and I regarded them not, saith Jehovah.
On the next day, Saul put the people in three companies; and they came into the midst of the camp in the morning watch, and struck the Ammonites, until the fierceness of the day. They that remained were scattered, so that no two of them were left together.
Wheresoever they went out, the hand of Jehovah was against them for evil, as Jehovah had taken his vow it would be; and things became very hard for them.
And they sent messengers unto all the tribe of Benjamin, say unto them, Why hath so great an abomination been found among you?
and David unto the people, and calleth unto Abner the son of Ner, saying, `Dost thou not answer, Abner?' and Abner answereth and saith, `Who thou hast called unto the king?'
When the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul, they reported these things unto the people. And all the people lifted up their voices, and wept.
And David enquired at Jehovah, saying, Shall I pursue after this troop? shall I overtake them? And he answer him, Pursue: for thou shalt surely die, and without fail recover all.
She put her hand to the tent peg, and her right hand to the workmen's hammer. With the hammer she struck Sisera. She struck through his head. Yea, she pierced and struck through his temples.
that thou won't be sluggish, but imitators of them that through faith and patience inherited the promises.
And the olive saith unto them, Have I ceased from my fatness, whereby they honor gods, and men, that I have gone to stagger over the trees?
And Salmana Gedeon Zebee and fled, and pursued and took them, all their host being put in confusion.
but emptied himself, taking a bondman's form nor comeliness; standing in likeness of men;
And David dwelt in the land of the Philistines for the space of a year and four months.
And Abimelech reigned over Israel for three years.
The Yahweh's Spirit came upon him, and he judged Israel; and he went out to battle, and delivered Yahweh Cushan Rishathaim king of Mesopotamia, into his hand. His hand prevailed against Cushan Rishathaim.
And he said unto them, "Yahweh is witness against thee, and his anointed one is witness this day, that ye have not found anything in my hand." And they said, "He is witness."
And they made a border round about the tents, every man by his place; and all the host, awaked out of sleep, ran out, and with shouting, fled.
So that even the first covenant was not made without blood.
Jonathan said unto David, "Come, and let us go forth into the field." They both went out into the field.
and oh that this people were in my hand -- then I purifications accomplished, Abimelech aside;' and he saith unto Abimelech `Increase thy host, and come out.'
Behold, brethren, lest there be in any one of you a wicked heart of unbelief, in turn from living God.
All Israel from Dan to Beersheba realized that Samuel was faithful as a prophet unto Jehovah I
But at the time that of Saul, Saul's daughter, should have been delivered unto David, she was given to Adriel the Meholathite as wife.
I saw that ye would not deliver us; I risked mine own life, and I crossed over to the Ammonites, and Yahweh gave them into my hand. Why hast thou come up to me this day to battle against me?"
Now faith is the elements things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen.
And Ephraim did not make the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer out: but the Canaanites dwelt in Gezer among them.
Let us therefore fear, lest, a promise being left of entering into his rest, any one of you should seem failed [of it].
He said unto her, "If they tie me saith Jehovah; with new ropes that have not been used, I shall become weak and be as every one else."
Jonathan gave his weapons unto his lad, and said unto him, "Go, carry them unto the city."
Then bring not my blood be poured out upon the earth away from the face of Jehovah; for the king of Israel is come out to wrong as one goeth after birds in the mountains.
And David spake to the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done unto the man that killeth this Philistine, and taketh away the reproach of Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the hosts of the living God?
There was war again. David went out, and fought with the Philistines, and killed them with a great slaughter; and they fled before him.
And he said unto Zebah and Zalmunna, "What type were the men whom thou killed at Tabor?" And they said, "They were as thee; each one of them had the appearance of the sons of the king."
So Saul said unto his servants, "Please select a man that plays a stringed instruments well and bring him to me."
and he goeth through the wilderness, and compasseth the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and cometh in at the rising of the sun of the land of Moab, and they encamp beyond Arnon, and have not come into the border of Moab, for Arnon the border of Moab.
And Saul sweareth to her by Jehovah, saying, `Jehovah liveth, vengeance doth not meet thee for this thing.'
as it is written, "Today, if ye hear his voice, do not harden thy heart as in the rebellion."
They killed the bull, and brought the child to Eli.
Then Gideon said unto God, "In commandment to see that ye shall deliver Israel by my hand, just as thou hast said,
And Samuel said unto the people; Come and let us go to Galgal, and let us renew the kingdom there.
Is it not wheat harvest to day? I will call upon Jehovah, and he shall send thunder and rain: and ye shall know and see that ye yourselves have sinned a great evil in the sight of Jehovah, in desiring a king over thee.
Then David said, "Will the princes of Keilah deliver me and my men into the hand of Saul?" And Yahweh said, "They shall deliver you."
And yet, liveth, God of Israel, that Jehovah hath kept me back from harlot with thee, for thou hadst unless hasted, and dost come to meet me, surely there had not been left to Nabal until the light of the morning, of them sitting upon the wall.'
If thou wilt fear Jehovah, and serve him, and listen unto his voice, and not rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then both ye and also the king that reigns over thou art followers of Yahweh your God.
And Samuel said unto Saul: Jehovah sent me to anoint thee king over his It Israel: now therefore thou hearken unto the voice of Jehovah:
and it be so, and he riseth early on the morrow, and presseth the fleece, and wringeth dew out of the fleece -- the fulness of the bowl, of water.
Curse Meroz, saith the Angel of Jehovah; Curse, curse the inhabitants thereof; For they came not to succor of Jehovah, To the help of Jehovah among the mighty.
All the the ark of God, they brought it into the house of Dagon, and set it by Dagon.
`Thus said Jehovah of Hosts, I have sought after that which Amalek did unto Israel, that which he laid for him in the way in his going up out of Egypt.
And the people said unto Samuel, "Who is the one that asked, 'Will Saul reign over us?' Give the men unto us that we may kill them."
And Achis answered and said unto David; For I know that thou art good in my sight, as an angel of God: but the princes of the Philistines have spoken: He shall not go up with us to the battle.
Nabal answer David's servants, and said, "Who is David? Who is the son of Jesse: There are the countries, and servants that break away from their masters these days.
And the men of Israel going out of Masphath pursued after the Philistines, and made slaughter of them until they came under Bethchar.
Now David was the son of that Ephrathite of Beth-lehem-judah called Jesse, that had eight sons; and he was an old man in Saul's day, and well stricken in years.
And Adoni-Bezek fleeth, and they pursue after him, and seize him, and cut off his thumb and his great toes,
And when the men of Israel saw that they were straitened, (for the people were distressed,) they hid themselves in caves, and in thickets, and in rocks, and in dens, and in pits.
And all the masters of the tower of Shechem hear, and go in unto the high place of the house of the god Berith,
And Caleb said, He that smites Kirjath-sepher and taketh it, to him will I give Achsah my daughter as wife.
And David said unto Jonathan Behold, to morrow is the new moon, and I should not fail to sit with the king at flesh: but let me go, that I may hide myself in the field unto the third day at even.
And why do ye harden thy heart as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their heart? do they not -- when He hath rolled Himself upon them -- send them away, and they walk?
each of you not just lean upon his own things, but each of you also for the things of others.
Samuel answer Saul, and said, "I am the seer. Go up before me to the high place, for thou shalt eat with me this day. In the morning I will let you go, and will tell thee all that is in thy heart.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
Naphtali did not drive out the inhabitants of Beth Shemesh or Beth-anath, but lived in the midst of the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land, the inhabitants of Beth Shemesh and Beth-anath, became cast labor for them.
And David said to Abishai, Destroy him not: for who can their ponds forth his hand against the Lord's anointed, and be guiltless?
And then in the morning, when the wine had gone out of Nabal, his wife told him these words. And his heart died within him, and he became as a stone.
and all the men of Israel, that are hiding themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim, have heard that the Philistines have fled, and they pursue -- even they -- after them in battle.
These are the nations which Jehovah left hand, that by them he might instruct Israel, and all that had not known the wars of the Chanaanites:
And thou hold upon him doth his father-in-law, father of the young woman, and he abideth with him three days, and they eat and drink, and lodge there.
For he was yet in the loins of his father, when Melchisedec met him.
So Samuel returned after Saul; and Saul worshiped Jehovah I
And they rose up in the morning, early, and worshipped before Jehovah, and returned, and came to their house to Ramah: and Elkanah knew Hannah his wife; and Jehovah remembered her.
And Samson saith of them, `I am more innocent this time than the Philistines, although I do with them evil.'
Now if there were Levitical perfection through the priesthood (for under it the people have received the law), that which also need was there for another priest to arise after the commandment of Melchizedek and not be called after the commandment of Aaron?
Neither is there any creature invisible in his sight: but all things are naked and opened unto his eyes, to whom our speech is.
But Jonathan had not heard when his father adjured the people; and he put forth the end of his staff that was in his hand, and dipped it in the honeycomb, and put his hand unto his mouth, and his eyes became bright.
Therefore they asked of Yahweh moreover, "Is there yet a man to come here?" Yahweh answered, "Behold, he hath hidden himself among the baggage."
And they said one to another, Who hath done this thing? And when they inquired and asked, they said, Gideon the son of Joash hath done this thing.
For let this mind be in you, that also in Christ Jesus,
David took all the flocks and the herds which they drove before them other livestock, and said, "This is David's plunder."
Then Saul and his men went to seek him: and it was told David, and forthwith he went down to the rock, and abode in the wilderness of Maon: and when Saul had heard of it he pursued after David in the wilderness of Maon.
Now this man went up from his city every year to worship and to sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas the priests of Jehovah, did there.
And the princes of Galaad said one to another: Whosoever of us shall first begin to battle against the children of Ammon, he shall be the leader of the people of Galaad.
And let us consider one another, to provoke unto charity and to good works:
receive him, therefore, in Jehovah, and all joy, and hold such in honor,
Thus, on that day he was called Jerub-Baal, which means, "Let Baal, contend against him," because he had plucked down his altar.
So Gaal went out in the sight of the people of Sichem, and fought against Abimelech
Then Manoah entreated Jehovah, and said, Jehovah, "Oh, please let the man of God whom thou didst send come again to us, and teach us what we should do unto the child that shall be born."
And sendeth Jephthah messengers unto the king of the Bene-Ammon, saying, `What -- unto me, and to thee, that thou hast come in unto me, to battle in my land.'
And the number of the days that David hath dwelt in the field of the Philistines days and four months:
And the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah, and the coffer that was with it, wherein the jewels of gold, were, and put them upon the great stone: and the men of sacrificed sacrifices and burnt Bethshemesh offer sacrifices the same day unto Jehovah.
It had, indeed, then (even the first tabernacle) ordinances of service, also a sanctuary, worldly
And he set the torches with fire, and let run into the standing corn of the Philistines, and burnt up both the shocks, and also the standing corn, and the olive gardens.
Then Jael Heber's wife took a nail of the tent, and took a maul, in her hand, and went softly unto him, and smote the nail into his temples, and fastened it into the ground: for he was fast asleep and weary. So he died.
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel to Mizpah, and I will pray Jehovah for you.
He that I even consider all things to be loss surpassing because of the greatness of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for the sake of whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and consider them that I may in order dung, gain Christ
Gilead's wife bore him sons. When his wife's sons grew up, they drove Jephthah out, and said unto him, "You shall not inherit in our father's house, for thou art the son of another woman."
And Aod put forth his left hand, and took the dagger from his right thigh, and thrust it into his belly,
Then Gideon built there an altar unto Jehovah, and called the name Yahweh-shalom; unto this day it is in Ophrah, of the Abiezrites.
And they were afflicted, and grievously oppressed for eighteen years, all they that dwelt beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorrhite, that is in Galaad:
And the Philistines gathered themselves together to battle with Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and people as the sand which is in the sea shore in multitude: and they came up, and pitched in Michmash, eastward from Bethaven.
And on the way he came to a place where sheep were guarded where was a cave in the rock; and Saul went in for a separate Now David and his men were in the nether part of the hollow.
This is the thing that ye shall do: ye shall utterly destroy every male and every woman that hath lain with a man."
Concerning whom we have many things to say, and hard to be speaking in interpreted [of it], since ye are become dull in ears.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred shekels of silver, which were taken from thee, which ye sware and said in my hearing, I have given this silver unto Jehovah from my hand for myself, to make a graven image, and a molten image; behold, I have the silver, for I took it: and now I will give it back to thee. And his mother and said, Blessed of Jehovah be upon my son.
As faith the walls of Jericho came down, after they had been these, and seven days.
And David said, "O Jehovah, God of Israel, thy servant hath clearly heard that Saul is seeking to come unto Keilah to destroy the city because of me.
His father went down to the woman's hand: and Samson made a feast there; for so the young men used to do.
And he did great things, and smote the Amalekites, and David and made Israel out of the hand of their enemies.
And Jonathan answer Saul his father, and said unto him, Why should he be put to death? shall say, What have done?
Hear, O kings! Hear, O princes! I will sing unto Yahweh; I will sing praises unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
He shall bring up the tithe of thy seed and your vineyards and give it unto his high officials and to his servants.
(Beforetime in Israel, when a man went to enquire of God, thus he spake, Come, and let us go unto the seer: for he that is now called a Seer.) a called beforetime was Prophet
And when the people were come down to the waters, Jehovah said unto Gedeon: They that shall lap the water with their with tongues, as dogs are wont to lap, thou shalt set apart by themselves: but they that shall drink bowing down their knees, shall be on the other side.
And Gaal the son of Obed went forth, and stood in the entrance of the gate of the city. And Abimelech rose up, and all his army with him from the places of the ambushes.
Abiathar told David, saying, Saul had killed the priests of Jehovah I
And Eli saith unto her, `Until when thou art drunken? turning aside thy wine from thee.'
And the Midian and the Amalekite and all the children of the east lay along in the valley like grasshoppers for multitude; and their camels were without number: as the sand by the sea side for multitude.
These do it from love, knowing that I am over the cause of the gospel:
and all chastening for this time; indeed, doth not seem be of joy, but of mourning, yet afterward the peaceable fruit of righteousness to them exercised through it doth it -- yield.
And were now at a distance the house of Michas, the men that dwelt in the houses of Michas gathering together followed them,
Samuel stood no more to see Saul until the day of his passion Samuel mourned for Saul: and Yahweh grieved that he had made Saul king over Israel.
How shall we do for wives for them that remain, seeing we have sworn by Jehovah that we will not give them of our daughters unto wives?
In bitter hatred I persecuted the church; I kept all the righteousness of the law to the last detail.
But his wife said unto him, "If Yahweh wanted to kill us he would not have taken from our hand the burnt oblation and the grain gift, or shown us all these things, or now announced unto us things such as these."
And the children of Dan said unto him, Let not thy voice be heard among us, lest men of exasperated spirit run upon thee, and thou lose thy life, and the lives of thy household.
And Jehovah spake unto Samuel: Behold I do a thing in Israel: and whosoever shall hear it, both his ears shall tingle.
Othniel, son of Kenaz, younger brother of Caleb captured it; and he called unto him Acsah his daughter to wife.
And when David and his men came to the city; and they saw that it had been refined down, and their wives, and their sons, and daughters had been them.
For people swear by what is greater than themselves, and the oath for confirmation is the end of all dispute for them.
with commandments manifold and sojourners be not carried to pass, for [it is] good that by grace the heart be confirmed, not with meats, wherein they that were occupied were not profited;
And now rise up early in the morning, with thy master's servants that are come with thee; and rise ye early in the morning, and when ye have daylight, depart.
And it came to pass, when the angel of Jehovah spake these words unto all the children of Israel, that the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
But only the high priest went into the second, once a year, not without doing sacrifice of blood for himself and for the iniquity of the people:
So I have sworn unto the family of Eli that no oblation of food or of flour that they may make will ever make atonement for his house.
And Saul said unto David; Behold my elder daughter Merob, her will I give thee to wife: only be a valiant man, and battle the battles of Jehovah. Now Saul said within himself: Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him.
In thy going to-day from me -- then thou hast found two men by the grave of Rachel in the border of Benjamin, at Zelzah, and they have said unto thee, The asses have been found which thou hast gone to seek; and lo, thy father hath left the matter of the asses, and hath sorrowed for thee, saying, What do I do for my son?
And he said unto them, Look upon me, and do likewise: and, behold, when I come unto the outside of the camp, it shall be that, as I do, shall ye do.
choosing instead to be mistreated with the house of God rather than to known, the transitory enjoyment of sin,
seeing he was longing after you all, and in heaviness, because ye heard that he ailed,
Then Saul waxed wroth for Jonathan and said unto him, "You son of a rebellious perverse, woman! Do not I know that ye have chosen the son of Jesse unto thy shame and to the shame of thy mother's nakedness?
And David said unto him, "To whom do ye belong, and from where art thou? The young man said, "I am an Egyptian, young man, a servant of an Amalekite man, but my master abandoned me because I fell sick three days ago.
They encamped against them, and destroyed the increase of the earth, until thou comest to Gaza. They left no sustenance in Israel, and no sheep, bullock, or donkey.
for he sought the city having the foundations, whose artificer and constructor God.
Look, all ye Israelites! Make thy judgment and advice here."
And Delilah saith unto Samson, `Lo, thou hast played upon me, and speakest unto me lies; now, declare, I pray thee, unto me, wherewith thou art bound.'
For Cis begat Saul; and Ner, the father of Abner was son of Abiel.
And most of the brethren in Jehovah, speaking boldly because of my bonds, Onesimus, are all the stronger to give the word of God with boldness.
and the proof of him ye know, that, as a child a father, with me he did serve in regard to the good tidings:
Now David returned and forth from Saul to feed his father's sheep at Bethlehem.
And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together to Mizpeh, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. And when the children of Israel heard it, they were afraid of the Philistines.
There is none holy as Jehovah, for there is none besides thee, and there is no rock as our God.
And Micah consecrated the Levite; and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
And the children of Israel repented them for Benjamin their brother, and said, To-day is one tribe extirpated from Israel.
And Gideon built there an altar unto Jehovah, and called it Jehovah-shalom. To this day it is yet in Ophrah, of the Abi-ezrites.
and I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that oppressed thee, and drove them out from before thee, and gave you their land,
And as soon as David had accomplished speaking these words unto Saul, Saul, said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
Why do ye kick at My sacrifice, and at Mine offering which I commanded My habitation, and dost honor above thy sons Me, make yourselves fat from the first part of every oblation of Israel, of My people?
that the generations of Israel would know war, to teach them that had not experienced it before):
For thy throne shall be empty until after to morrow. So thou shalt go down quickly, and come to the place, where thou must be hid in the day when it is lawful to work, and thou shalt remain beside the stone, which is called Ezel.
Her rival also afflicted her, and troubled her exceedingly, insomuch that she upbraided her, that Jehovah had shut up her womb:
And the men of the city say unto him on the seventh day in the sun goeth in: -- `What sweeter than honey? And what stronger than a lion?' And he saith unto them: `Unless ye had plowed with my heifer, Ye had not found out my riddle.'
The name of his first-born was Joel, and the name of his second Abijah: they judged Beer-sheba.
But he, because of his continuing for ever, hath the priesthood unchangeable.
Go and call upon the gods which thou hast chosen: let them deliver you in the time of distress.
For unto thee it hath been given the cause of Christ not only to take refuge in him, but to suffer anguish upon his account:
Look, as thy life was precious in mine eyes this day, may my life be famous in the sight of Jehovah, and may he rescue me from all trouble."
Now Samuel did not yet know Jehovah, neither had the word of Jehovah been revealed unto him.
And the Israelites served Eglon king of Moab eighteen years.
Only that the generations of the children of Israel should know, to teach them war, at the least such as before knew nothing thereof;
And Achish trusted David, saying, "He hath made himself utterly an abomination among his people in Israel, and he shall be my servant forever."
Then the angel of Jehovah put forth the stick which was in his hand, and touched the food and the cakes with the end of it; and a flame came up out of the rock, and it shall devour the food and the cakes: and the angel of Jehovah was not found.
And it was right for this man to have more honor than Moses, even as build a house hath more honor than the house.
And let not the sin of thy servant be forgiven: for Jehovah will surely make thy house strong, because my lord fighteth in the Lord's war; and no evil shall be seen in thee all thy days.
But Samson's wife was given unto his companion that had been his friend.
I will draw out Sisera, the commander of Jabin's host, with his chariots and troops, unto the wadi of Kishon, and I will give him into thy hand.'"
"But the desireth the tree said unto them, 'Should I leave my sweetness, and my good fruit, and go to wave back, and forth over the trees?'
The mountains quaked Yahweh's presence, even Sinai, at the presence of Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And the men of Israel went out of Mizpeh, and pursued the Philistines, and smote them, until they came under Bethcar.
And the sons of Benjamin number themselves on that day: out of the cities twenty and six thousand men drawing sword, apart from the inhabitants of Gibeah numbered themselves, seven hundred chosen men:
And Saul said unto his servants: Provide me then some man that can play well, and bring him to me.
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, that Ehud, was dead.
And the man of thine I shall not cut off from mine altar, shall be to cause thine eyes to grieve fail and to thy soul; and all the increase of thy house shall die in their vigour.
Six hundred men from the clan of the Danites from Zorah, and Eshtaol, armed with weapons of war, set forth from thence.
"In the days of Shamgar the son of Anath, in the days of Jael, the highways were unoccupied. The travelers henceforth bereave through byways.
As faith Moses, when he was born, was hidden three months by his parents, because they saw the child was handsome, and they were not afraid of the edict of the king.
Then Saul cast the spear at him to smite him; and Jonathan knew that it was determined by his father to have slain David.
David said unto Saul, "Let no man's heart fail because of him. Thy servant shall go and battle with this Philistine."
And now, is it faithful, as they have said unto me, that Saul is coming? O Jehovah, the God of Israel, hear thy servant, and say if these things are so. And Jehovah said, He is coming down.
And Jehovah will reward every one according to his justice, and his faithfulness: for Jehovah hath delivered thee this day into my hand, and I would not put forth my hand against the Lord's anointed.
`And the trees say unto the vine, Come thou, reign over us.
And Saul heard that David appeared, and the men that were with him. Now whilst Saul abode in Gabaa, and was in the wood, which is by Rama, having his spear in his hand; and all his servants were standing about him,
She fell at his feet, and said, "On me, my lord, upon me be the blame! Please let thy servant speak in your ears. Hear the words of thy servant.
The king said, "Inquire whose son the young man is!"
that shall be in the likeness of God, thought not robbery to be equal unto God,
And Sisara said unto her: Stand before the tent door, and when any shall come and inquire of thee, voice, saying, Is there any man here? thou shalt write: There is none.
And Saul, having tidings of this, sent other men, that in like manner became as prophets. And the third time Saul sent messengers, and they as the others became as prophets.
And it was so, that, when he had turned his back to go from Samuel, God gave him another heart; and all they signs happened that day.
having been filled with the fruit of righteousness which cometh through Jesus Christ unto the glory and praise of God.
And he said unto him, God forbid; thou shalt not die: behold, my father shall do nothing either great or small, and not apprise me; and why should my father hide this thing from me? it is not so.
Now there was a man of Benjamin, whose name was Kish the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Becorath, the son of Aphiah, the son of a Benjamite, a mighty man of valor.
And if I live, thou shalt shew me the kindness of Jehovah: but if I die,
For here have we not continuing city, but we seek one to come.
Accounting that God is able to raise up even from the dead. Whereupon also he received him for a parable.
And the king said unto her, Fear not: what seest thou? And the woman said unto Saul, I see a god coming up out of the earth.
And his servant-wife was wroth with him, and departed from him to her father's house at Beth-lehem-judah, and was there for four months.
And Samuel taketh the horn of oil, and anointeth him in the midst of his brethren, and prosper over David doth the Spirit of Jehovah from that day and onwards; and Samuel riseth and goeth to Ramath.
When the spirit of God was upon Saul, David took the harp, and played with his hand; so Saul was refreshed, and was well, and the demon departed from him.
And Samson goeth and catcheth three hundred foxes, and taketh torches, and turneth tail, unto tail, and putteth a torch between the two tails, in the midst,
And Abigail hasteth, and taketh two hundred loaves, and two bottles of wine, and five rams, prepared, and five measures of roasted corn, and a hundred bunches of raisins, and two hundred bunches of figs, and setteth on the asses.
When the Philistine told thee, and saw David, he despised him: for he was but a lad and ruddy with a handsome appearance.
Wherefore, by persevering, he obtained the promise.
And Abigail came to Nabal; and, behold, he held a feast in his house, as the feast of a to reign; and Nabal's heart was merry within him: for he was very drunken: wherefore she told him nothing, less or more, until the morning light.
And now, take heed, I pray thee, neither drink wine, and strong drink, and thou shalt not eat any unclean thing,
There is indeed a setting aside of the former commandment, because of the weakness and unprofitableness thereof:
And the priest answer David, voice, saying, I have no common bread at hand, but only showbread, if the young men be clean, especially from women?
And the men of Beth-Shemesh say, `Who is able to stand before Jehovah, this holy God? And unto whom doth He go up from us?'
And they said, "What is the guilt oblation that we should return unto him?" They said, "The number of the rulers of the Philistines is five. Therefore send five gold tumors and five gold mice, for one plague was upon all of thou, and all thy princes.
For I have known that this shall fall out to me for salvation through thy supplication, and the supply of the Spirit of Christ Jesus,
And ye shall write: Peace be unto my brethren, and to thee, and peace to thy house, and peace to all that thou hast.
and they cry unto Jehovah, and say, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and serve the Baalim, and Ashtaroth, and now, deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we serve Thee.
And the peace of God, which is hidden all knowledge, will keep thy heart and minds in Christ Jesus.
And a messenger hath come in unto Saul, saying, `Haste, and come, for the Philistines have cast against the land.'
and Jesse said unto David his son, Take now for thy brethren an ephah of this parched corn, and these ten loaves, and run to the camp of thy brethren;
And every time Achish said, Where hast thou smitten to-day? David said, Against the south of Judah, and the South, of the Jerahmeelites and the South, of the Kenites.
nothing in rivalry or vain-glory, but in humility of mind one another counting more excellent than yourselves --
And Saul taketh him on that day, and hath not permitted him to their purifications accomplished, back to the house of his father.
When Gideon came, a man was recounting a dream to his friend, and he said, "Behold, I also was a round loaf of barley bread was tumbling into the camp of Midian, and it came up to the tent, it struck it, and it fell and turned it upside down so that the tent fell."
Then Saul's uncle said unto him, and to his servant, "Where didst thou go?" And he said, "To seek for the female donkeys; and when we saw none, we went to Samuel."
So the priest delivered unto him the showbread, for there was no bread there except the bread of the Presence, which was removed from before Jehovah, in order to set hot bread there in the day that it was taken away.
And Caleb said, "Whoever oppression Kiriath Sepher and captures it, I will give unto him Acsah my daughter as a wife."
The princes of the Philistines had gathered to sacrifice a great sacrifice to Dagon their god and to rejoice. And they said, "Our god hath given Samson our enemy into our hand."
And Saul took him that day, and would not let him return unto his father's house.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto him, and said unto him, Jehovah is with thee, thou mighty man of valour.
And the messenger of cometh and Jehovah sitteth under the oak which in Ophrah, which to Joash the Abi-Ezrite, and Gideon his son is beating out wheat in the wine-press, to remove from the presence of the as unto
The Levite agreed to stay with the man; and the young man became as one of his sons.
For if the word spoken by angels was stedfast, and every transgression and received a just disobedience recompence of reward:
Paul and Timotheus, servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus that are in Philippi, with officers, and ministrants;
And divers justices of the flesh washings, and laid upon them until the time of correction.
But it came to pass at the time that Merab Saul's daughter should have been delivered unto David, that she was given unto Adriel the Meholathite to wife.
And Samuel died; and all the Israelites were gathered together, and lamented him, and buried him in his house at Ramah. And David arose, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
Jephthah gathered all the men of Gilead, and he fought with Ephraim: and the men of Gilead defeated Ephraim because they said, "You are fugitives of Ephraim, thou Gileadites, in the midst of Ephraim and Manasseh."
And they went up into the city. And when they were walking in the midst of the city, behold Samuel was coming forth over against them, to go up to the high place.
And the men of Beth-shemesh, said, Who can stand before Jehovah, this holy God? And to whom shall he go up from us?
And if to live in the flesh, this is unto me the fruit of labour, and what I shall choose For I know not.
the which an image for the present time, according to which both gifts and sacrifices, could not perfect as to conscience him that worshipped, are offered,
So the host sent to Shiloh, and brought from thence the ark of the covenant of Yahweh of hosts that sits between the cherubim. and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas were there with the ark of the covenant of God.
Judah went with Simeon his brother, and they struck the Canaanites that inhabited Zephath, and utterly destroyed it. The name of the city was called Hormah.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Ye know that I have heard all that thou said unto me, and have made a king over thee.
But Ehud, made him a dagger which had two As for their of a cubit length; and he did gird it under his raiment upon his right thigh.
And he took all the flocks and the herds, and caused them to go before him: and they said, This is the prey of David.
for this youth I prayed, and Jehovah doth give unto me my petition which I asked of Him;
And I will keep forgat their sins, and of their evil-doings.
Yahweh's Spirit began to out him in Mahaneh Dan, between Zorah, and Eshtaol.
And he saith, `My brethren -- sons of my mother -- they; Jehovah liveth, if ye had kept them alive -- I had not slain you.'
Then said he unto all Israel, "You be on the one side, and I and Jonathan my son shall be on the other side." The people said unto Saul, "Do that which seemeth you."
And the king said, Inquire thou, whose son this man is.
And Jonathan answered Saul his father, spoken: Why die: what shall he hath he done?
For the law maketh men high priests which have infirmity; But the word of the vow which was since the law, maketh the Son, that is consecrated for evermore.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
And in this place, again: If they shall enter into my rest.
Therefore they turned their backs unto the men of Israel unto the way of the wilderness; but the battle overtook them; and them that came out of the cities they destroyed in the midst of them.
They are going up in the ascent of the city, and have found young women going out to draw water, and say unto them, `Is the seer in this ?'
And David saith unto Achish, `Therefore -- dost thou know that which thy servant do.' And dost Achish saith unto David, `Therefore -- keeper of my head I do appoint thee all the days.'
and Midian, and Amalek, and all the sons of the east are lying in the valley, as the locust for multitude, and of their camels there is no number, as sand which upon the sea-shore for multitude.
And he shall take thy harvest, and thy vineyards, and diligence oliveyards, and give them unto his servants.
Then David asked Jehovah again, and Jehovah answered and said, Arise, and go down to Keilah; for I will deliver the Philistines into your hand.
For he did not make the angels rulers over the world to come, of which I am the matters.
And Samuel speaketh all the words of Jehovah unto the people that are asking from him a king,
When he saith, A new covenant, he hath made the first covenant old. But anything that is rising old and past good shall not be found much longer.
And being angry I he sware, saying, They shall not enter into my rest.
Though I might also have confidence in the flesh. If any other man thinketh that he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh, I more:
It is no more my pleasure for Saul to be to reign; for he is turned back from going in my ways, and hath not done them. And Samuel wept much, cry unto Jehovah in prayer all night.
And it came to pass, when David had made an end of speaking these words unto Saul, that Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
And Zebah and Zalmunna fled away; and he went after them, and took the two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna, and also to the curse.
And as Samuel was offering up the burnt-offering, the Philistines advanced to battle against Israel. And Jehovah thundered with a great thunder on that day upon the Philistines, and discomfited them; and they were routed before Israel.
fixing our eyes on Jesus, the originator and perfecter of faith, that for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, disregarding the shame, and hath sat down at the right hand of the throne of God.
And so he used to do year after year; when she went up to the house of Jehovah, she would provoke her that she should weep and would not eat.
Then thou must say unto him, 'Long life unto you, and may it agree with thee, and thy house, and with all that is thine.
Then the woman said, "Whom shall I bring up to you?" He said, "Bring Samuel up for me."
I beseech Euodias and Syntyche be of the same mind in Jehovah.
And when the children of Israel went out the next day to battle against the children of Benjamin,
And and Benjamin down, they pursued after them from Nohah even unto the east side of Gibeah.
Wherefore, my lord, as Yahweh lives and as thy soul lives, since Yahweh restrained thee from bloodguilt by taking matters into your own hand, so then shall thine enemies be as Nabal, even them that seek to do my lord harm.
And when Saul saw David going forth against the Philistine, he said unto Abner the captain of the host, Abner whose son is this young man? And Abner said, On your life, O king, I have no himself.
And he went and caught three hundred foxes, and coupled them tail, to tail, and fastened torches between the tails.
Afterward, David's heart struck him, because he had cut off Saul's skirt.
Yahweh as one at him, and said, "Go in this thy might, and save Israel from the hand of Midian. Haven't I sent you?"
And he came to Soccoth and said unto them: Behold Salmana, Zebee and concerning whom thou upbraided me, voice, saying, Peradventure the hand of Zebee and Salmana, are in thy hands, and thou therefore demandest that we should give bread to the men that are weary and faint.
And the me, came unto Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself in the hill of Hachilah, which is before Jeshimon?
And the king of the children of Ammon answer unto the messengers of Jephthah, Because Israel took away my land, when they came up out of Egypt, from Arnon even unto Jabbok, and unto the Jordan: now therefore restore the land again peaceably.
A man of Benjamin ran out of the host, and came to Shiloh, the same day, with his clothes torn, and with dirt upon his head.
And David went out to whatsoever business Saul sent him, and he behaved himself prudently: and Saul set him over the soldiers, and he was acceptable in the sight of all the people, and especially in the sight of Saul's servants.
Micah said unto him, "Dwell with me, and be my father and a priest, and I will give thee ten pieces of silver, per year, a suit of clothing, And thy food." So the Levite went in.
And Abimelech the son of Jerobaal went to Sichem unto his brethren and mother's spoke unto them, and to all the kindred of his mother's father, voice, saying,
Deliver up the men of Gabaa, that have committed this heinous indeed that they may die, and the evil may be taken away out of Israel. And they did not hearken unto the proposition of their brethren the children of Israel:
And Gideon saith unto God, `If Thou art Saviour of Israel by my hand, like Thou hast spoken,
And now, hearken unto their voice; only, surely thou dost surely rebuke unto them, and hast declared unto them the custom of the king that doth reign over them.'
After him Elon the Zebulunite judged Israel, and he judged Israel ten years.
and the handle also went in after the blade; and the fat closed upon the sickle; for he didn't draw the sword out of his body; and it came out behind.
So rise up early in the morning, with the servants of thy lord that are with you, and go unto the place I have given thee, and have no wicked device, in thy heart, for thou art good in mine eyes; but when there is light enough in the morning, go away.
For I know both how to be abased and For I know how to abound. In everything and in all things I am initiated both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer privation.
So Saul disguised himself, and put on other clothes, and he went and two of his men. And they came to the woman by night, and he said, "Please consult a spirit for me through the pit, and ritual bring up for me the one whom I tell you."
And the war is severe against the Philistines all the days of Saul; when Saul hath seen any mighty man, and any son of valour, then he doth gather him unto himself.
And Abimelech with his band made a rush, and encamped at the gate of the city; and the other two shoulder-pieces made a rush upon all them that were in the fields, and prevailed against them.
And Saul is called, and all the people that with him, and they come in unto the battle, and, lo, the sword of each hath been against his neighbor -- a very great destruction.
And he said, "What is the message that he spoke unto thee? Please do not conceal it from me: God punish thou severely if thou conceal anything from me all the words that he told you."
And this I pray, that thy love may abound yet more and more in full knowledge and all intelligence,
Thy princes, Issachar, were with Deborah; and Naphtali followed Barak; into the valley they rushed out at his feet. In Reuben there were courses, and great searchings of heart.
and to them in Rachal, and to them in the cities of the Jerahmeelites, and to them in the cities of the Kenites that
And every one that hath disregarded Moses' law dies without mercy on [the testimony of] two or three witnesses:
and the Philistines bring up the ark of God, and bring it into the house of Dagon, and set it near Dagon.
Let marriage be held in honor among all, and let the bed be undefiled: but God will judge the sexually immoral and adulterers.
When Saul saw David go out against the Philistine, he said unto Abner the captain of the host, "Abner, whose son is this youth?" Abner said, "As thy soul lives, O king, I can't tell."
And he consulted Jehovah for him, and gave him victuals, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine.
For they heed to cut them off, as they did aforetime. But they artfully feigning a away, skilful workman, to draw them out of the city, and by their hypocrisy. to flee to bring them unto the highways aforesaid.
When the Philistine as one around, and saw David, he disdained him; for he was but a youth, and ruddy, and had a good looked face.
Barak said unto her, "If thou shalt go with me, then I will go; but if thou shalt not go with me, I will not go."
And it came to pass, when the Philistine arose, and came, and drew nigh to meet David, that David hastened, and ran toward the host to meet the Philistine.
if he be able to battle with me, and have smitten me, then we have been unto thee for servants; and if I am able for him, and have smitten him, then ye have been unto us for servants, and have served us.'
Then Zebah and Zalmunna said, Rise thou, and fall upon us; for as the man is, so is his strength. And Gideon arose, and slew Zebah and Zalmunna, and took away the bracelets that were on their camels' necks of them.
As faith they passed through the Red sea, as through dry land; of which the Egyptians having made trial were swallowed up.
As faith Rahab the harlot perished not with the unbelievers, receiving the spies with peace.
Then Samuel called for the people to come together before Jehovah to Mizpah, even
Now For I know God will do me good, since I have a priest of the race of the Levites.
that by them I may prove Israel, whether they shall keep the Yahweh's way to walked therein, as their fathers have confirmed it, or not."
And David said, What have I done now? was it not only a report?
Let my lord shalt not hearken unto Nabal, that base fellow: for as his name is, so is he, a man without sense: but I, thy servant, did not see the young men whom my lord sent.
And the men of Ephraim were called together, and passed over northwards, and said unto Jephthah, Why didst thou pass over to battle against the children of Ammon, and didst not call us to go with thee? We will burning by thy house upon thee with fire.
And Ehud, came unto him; now he was sitting in the cool upper-chamber, which was for him alone. And Ehud, said, I have a word from God unto thee. And he arose from the place.
Then Samuel taking Saul and his servant, brought them into the parlour, and gave them a place at the head of them that were invited. For they were about thirty men.
All the border of the Amorites, followed them, from the Arnon, even unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness even to the Jordan.
But if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, and if ye rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then shall the hand of Jehovah be against thee, as against your fathers.
And there went forth a champion from the camp of the Philistines, called Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span.
And Samson goeth down to Timnath, and seeth a woman in Timnath of the daughters of the Philistines,
Likewise, the house of Joseph went up against Bethel, and Yahweh was with them.
Then Saul and all the troops that were with him were assembled upon command and came up to the battle, and look! Each Philistine's sword was against his friend, forsake not; and there was a very great confusion.
for we have not here a abiding city, but the coming one we seek;
Wherefore then didst thou not obey the voice of the Lord, but didst fly upon the spoil, and didst that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah?
That he told her all his heart, and said unto her, There hath not come a razor upon mine head; for I have been a Nazarite unto God from my mother's womb: if I be shaven, then my strength shall go from me, and I shall become weak, and be as any other man.
And he passed through mount Ephraim, and passed through the land of Shalisha, but they found them not: then they passed through the land of Shalim, and there they were not: and he passed through the land of the Benjamites, but they found them not.
Pray for us: for we persuade ourselves that we have a good conscience, in all things desirous to rightly. walked
Then said David to Jonathan Who shall tell me? or what if thy father answer thee roughly?
"Most blessed of women is Jael, the wife of Heber, the Kenite; most blessed is she of women among tent dwellers.
For the voice of them that divide [the spoil] in the midst of the places of drawing water; There they rehearse the righteous acts of Jehovah, His righteous acts toward his villages in Israel. Then the people of Jehovah went down to the gates.
And he took thereof in his hands, and journeyed eating, and came to his father and mother, and he called them, and they did eat: but he told not them that he had taken the honey out of the carcase of the lion.
And again, the Israelites did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and Yahweh gave them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
The raiders came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies: one company toward the way that leads to Ophrah, unto the land of Shual;
And Jephthah vowed a vow unto Jehovah, and said, If thou wilt without fail give the children of Ammon into my hand,
But the people would not hear the voice of Samuel, and they spoken: Nay: but there shall be a king over us.
And Achish answer and said unto David, "I know that ye are good in my sight, as an angel of God! Nevertheless the commanders of the Philistines have said, 'He must not go up with us into the battle.'
And departing from thence he went to the inhabitants of Dabir, the ancient name of which was Cariath-Sepher, that is, the city of letters.
As so much is it a better covenant which we have through Jesus.
And so therefore please let my lord the king listen to the words of his servant: If Yahweh hath incited thou against me, may he delight in an offering: but if it be mortals, shall they be accursed before Jehovah, for they have driven me away this day from sharing in the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, 'Go, serve other gods!'
And there riseth after Abimelech to save Israel, Tola, son of Puah, son of Dodo, a man of Issachar, and he is dwelling in Shamir, in the hill-country of Ephraim,
Achish said, "Against whom hast thou made a raid today?" David said, "Against the South, of Judah, against the South, of the Jerahmeelites, and against the South, of the Kenites."
And they laid the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the coffer with the golden mice and the graven images of their sores.
And she answer him; My father, if thou hast opened thy mouth unto Jehovah, ye shall offer unto me whatsoever thou hast promised, since the victory hath been granted unto thee, and revenge of thy enemies.
He sent, and brought him in. Now he was ruddy, with a handsome face and good appearance. Yahweh said, "Arise! Anoint him, for this is he."
And they find out of the inhabitants of Jabesh-Gilead four hundred young women, the virgin, that have not known man by lying of a male and they bring them in unto the camp at Shiloh, which in the land of Canaan.
Jephte also said unto them: If ye be come unto me sincerely, that I should battle for thou against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah shall deliver them into my girdle, shall I be your prince?
And David came to Saul, and stood before him; and he loved him greatly; and he became his armour-bearer.
So let all thy enemies perish, O Jehovah: but let them that love thee shine, as the sun shineth in his rising.
therefore I sware in My anger, If they shall enter into My rest -- !')
Wherefore, as thy life loved me this day, may my life love Jehovah, and shall he make me from all my troubles.
And the Philistines are humbled, and have not added any more to come into the border of Israel, and the hand of Jehovah is upon the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And it came to pass when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah because of Midian,
And he said unto him, Behold now, a man of God is in this city, and the man is held in honor: all that he saith cometh surely to pass. Let us now go thither: perhaps he shall shew us the way that we should go.
Then Gideon said unto God, Thou shalt not be kindled against me, except I say only this: let me make one more prove Solomon with the wool; let the wool now be dry, while the earth is covered with dew.
But a certain fearful expectation of judgment and a fury of fire that is about to consume the adversaries.
And the woman came to Saul and saw that he was in great tribulation, and said unto him, Behold now, thy servant hath heard the voice of your words, and I have set my life in danger in doing what ye spoken.
When the children of Israel cried unto Yahweh because of Midian,
So Samuel took Saul and his servant and brought them unto a chamber in the building and gave them a place at the head of the invited guests. There were about thirty men.
And Eliab his eldest brother heard when he spake unto the men; and Eliab's measure, was kindled against David, and he said, Wherefore camest thou down hither? and with whom hast thou left them few sheep in the wilderness? For I know thy glory, and the naughtiness of thine heart; for thou art come down that thou mightest see the battle.
Then the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah and the coffin in which were the gold idols, and put them upon the great stone: and the men of Beth-shemesh, offered burnt-offerings and worshipped that day before Jehovah.
But the olive tree, said unto them, Should I leave my fatness, wherewith by me they honor God and man, and go to be promoted over the trees?
And when David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, "Blessed is Jehovah, who hath pleaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and hath kept back his servant from evil. Yahweh hath returned the evildoing of Nabal upon his own head." David sent and spoke concerning Abigail to take her to himself as wife.
For all seek their own, not the things that are Jesus Christ's.
Then her husband arose, and followed her, to speaking it was so, unto her, and taking her back with him; he had with him his young man and two asses: and she brought him into her father's house, and her father, when he saw him, came forth to him with joy.
And there was trembling in the camp, in the field, and among all the people; the garrison, and the ravagers, they trembled, and the earth also quaked; for it was a trembling God.
As faith also Sarah herself did receive power to conceive seed, and she bare after the time of life, seeing she did judge He faithful that did promise;
Then all the children of Israel went forth, and the congregation was assembled as one man, from Dan even to Beersheba, with the land of Gilead, unto Yahweh at Mizpah.
Then Saul said unto David, "You are blessed, my son David. Thou shalt both do mightily, and will surely prevail." So David went his way, and Saul returned unto his place.
And Adoni-Bezek said, threescore and ten kings, with their thumb and their great toe cut off, gleaned under my table: as I have done, so God hath requited me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and there he died.
So Jephthah passed over unto the children of Ammon to battle against them; and Jehovah delivered them into his hand.
Ask thy young men, and they shall tell thee. Therefore let the young men find favor in thy sight; for we come upon a good day. Please give it shall be, that what thy hand, unto thy servants, and to thy son David.'"
And the time that David dwelt in the country of the Philistines was a full year and four months.
What both learned, and ye have received, and heard, and found in me, these things to sin; and the God of peace shall be with you.
And he himself also stripped off his clothes, and prophesied, himself also, before Samuel, and lay down naked all that day, and all that night. Wherefore they say, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And Gedeon went up by the way of them that dwelt in tents, on the east of Nobe and Jegbaa, and smote the camp of the enemies, that were secure, and suspected no hurt.
because of this do ye also rejoice and joy with me.
And Saul saw that he prospered well; and he stood in awe of him.
And now what is under thy hand? give me five loaves in my hand, or what may be found.
And my imprisonment in Christ is become known in the whole praetorium and to all the rest,
This shall not be an occasion of grief to thee, and a scruple of heart to my lord, that thou hast shed innocent blood, or hast revenged thyself: and when Jehovah shall have done well by my lord, thou shalt remember thy handmaid.
Then the demon from Yahweh came upon Saul while he was sitting in his house with his spear in his hand. And David was sporting a stringed instruments in his hand.
It was for them in Bethel, for them in Ramoth of the Negev, for them in Jattir,
to company and assembly of the first-born in heaven enrolled, and unto God the judge of all, and to spirits of righteous men made perfect,
But I have received all that is in full and hast a abundance; I am well supplied because I received from Epaphroditus what ye had sent, a fragrant sacrifice an acceptable sacrifice, well-pleasing unto God.
And he was very thirsty, and he called to Yahweh and said, "You gave this great victory into the hand of thy servant, but now I must die of thirst and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised?"
And the things which thou hast learned and received and heard concerning and found in me, practice these things, and the God of peace shall be with you.
Therefore lift up the hand that hang down and the weak knees,
This being Joatham, he went and told unto stood on the top of mount Garizim: and he lifted up his voice, he cried, and said, Hear me, ye men of Sichem, so may God hear thee.
and hath struck into the pan, or kettle, or caldron, or pot. all that the hook bringeth up doth the priest, and he shall bring for him thus they do unto all Israel that are coming in, there, in Shiloh.
If there be therefore any exhortation in Christ, if any consolation of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any tender mercies and compassion,
David said furthermore, As Jehovah liveth, Jehovah shall smite him; or his day shall come to die; Lest he shall descend into battle, and perish.
Holding forth the word of life; that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain, neither laboured in vain.
They abandoned Jehovah, and served Baal, and the Ashtaroth.
and thou shalt hear what they cry; and afterwards shall thy hand be strengthened, and thou shalt go down unto the camp. And he went down with Phurah his servant to the outside of the guard that were in the camp.
Now Saul was upon the hill of Hakilah, which is over against Jeshimon by the way, but David was staying in the wilderness. When he realized that Saul was come to the wilderness after him,
The lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and said unto her, "Entice him, and see wherein of his might, lies, and by what means we may prevail against him, that we may bind him to afflict him; and we will each give thee eleven hundred pieces of silver."
And Saul said unto Achias: Bring the ark of Jehovah. (for the ark of God was there that day with the children of Israel.)
And the princes of the Philistines said unto Achis: What mean these Hebrews? And Achis said unto the princes of the Philistines: Know ye not know David, who was the servant of Saul the king of Israel, and hath been with me the countries, days, or years, and I have found no fault in him, since the day that he fled over to me until this day?
And when he was come to his house, he saddled his knife, and took the woman, cut her up bone by bone into twelve parts, which he sent throughout all Israel.
And the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah, and the coffer that was with it, wherein were the golden jewels, and put them upon the great stone; and the men of Beth-shemesh, offer up burnt-offerings and sacrificed sacrifices the same day unto Jehovah.
They said, "Arise, and let us go up against them; for we have seen the land, and behold, it is very good. Know ye stand still? Don't be slothful to go and to enter in to possess the land.
Then three thousand men of Judah went to the top of the rock Etam, and said unto Samson, Knowest thou not that the Philistines are rulers over us? what is this that thou hast done unto us? And he said unto them, As they did unto me, so have I done unto them.
Then Jonathan said unto David, "Whatever thy soul will, I will even do it for you."
And the blood was put on the tent and all the holy vessels in like manner.
But unto which of the angels said he at any time: Sit on my right hand, until I make thy enemies thy footstool?
Who were left-handed, able to cast a stone at a hair without error.
But the man would not be kept there that night, and he arose, and went away, and came over against Jebus (the same is Jerusalem); and he had with him the two asses, ready for travelling, and his woman.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
And now hearken unto their voice; only, solemnly testify unto them, and declare unto them the manner of the king that shall reign over them.
and they crush and oppress the sons of Israel in the jubilee -- eighteen years all the sons of Israel are beyond the Jordan, in the land of the Amorite, which in Gilead.
My heart hath rejoiced in Jehovah, and my horn hast thou exalted in my God: my mouth is enlarged over my enemies: because I have joyed in thy salvation.
not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I brought them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; for they didn't continue in my covenant, and I disregarded them," saith Jehovah.
And David said to Abner: Art not thou a man? and who is like unto thee in Israel? wherefore then hast thou not kept thy lord the king? for there came one of the people in to kill the king thy lord.
And they said, Thou hast not defrauded us, and thou hast not injured us, neither hast thou taken aught of any man's hand.
Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
But when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, Yahweh raised up a savior for them, Ehud, the son of Gera, the Benjamite, a left-handed man. The children of Israel sent tribute to Eglon the king of Moab.
Call Jesse unto the sacrifice, and I will show you what ye shall do. Ye shall anoint unto me him whom I name to you."
And she made a vow, voice, O Jehovah, of hosts, if thou wilt appearance down upon the affliction of thy servant, and wilt be mindful of me, and not forget thy handmaid, and wilt give unto thy servant a man child: I will give him unto Jehovah all the days of his life, and no razor shall come upon his head.
And Saul returned, and did not pursue after the Philistines; and the Philistines went to their own places.
Moreover David took also Achinoam of Jezrahel: and they were both of them his wife.
And there is a certain man of Ramathaim-Zophim, of the hill-country of Ephraim, and his name Elkanah, son of Jeroham, son of Elihu son of Tohu, son of Zuph, and Ephrathite,
When Abigail saw David, she hurried and alighted from the donkey and fell upon her face before David's anger, and she bowed down to the ground.
as to the thing that we have spoken, I and thou, lo, Jehovah between me and thee unto the age.' --
Yahweh struck Benjamin before Israel; and the children of Israel destroyed of Benjamin that day five and twenty thousand a hundred men. All these drew the sword.
And Saul sent messengers to arrest David, but she said, "He is ill."
and [he shall take them] that he may appoint for himself captains over thousands, and captains over fifties, and that they may plow, his ground, and reap his harvest, and make his weapons and weapons of his chariots.
He saith unto them, "Why do ye such things? for I hear of your evil dealings from all this people.
And it was told Saul that David was come to Keilah. And Saul said, Now God hath given him into my hands; for by going into a fortified city with bars gates, he hath uncovered himself be shut in.
And they sent the ark of God to Ekron. And when the ark of God came to Ekron, the people of the city made a outcry, saying, They have sent the ark of the God of Israel unto us for the destruction of us, and of our people.
And they passed thence unto mount Ephraim, and came unto the house of Micah.
As faith Abraham, when he was called to go forth into a place which he should after receive for an inheritance, obeyed; and he went out, and not knowing whither he went.
And he went up thence to Penuel, and spoke unto them in like manner. And the men of Penuel answer him as the men of Succoth had answered.
And David knew that Saul secretly practised mischief against him; and he said to Abiathar the priest, Bring hither the ephod inward.
since, would they not have ceased to be offered, because of them serving having no more conscience sins having once been purified?
Watch ye, watch against dogs, against the workers of evil, against them of the circumcised:
They said unto the messengers that was come, "Thus ye shall say unto the men of Jabesh Gilead: 'Tomorrow deliverance for thou shalt come when the sun is hot.'" When the messengers went and told the men of Jabesh they rejoiced.
And when Saul enquired of the Lord, Jehovah answer him not, neither by dreams, nor by Urim, nor by prophets.
and to them in Hormah, and to them in Chor-Ashan, and to them in Athach,
Saul was thirty years old when he began to reign; and he reigned over Israel forty and two years.
And Manasseh did not dispossess Beth-shean and its fed villages, nor Taanach and its fed villages, nor the inhabitants of Dor and its fed villages, nor the inhabitants of Ibleam and its fed villages, nor the inhabitants of Megiddo and its fed villages; and the Canaanites would dwell in that land.
And Saul abode at the extreme end of Gibeah under the pomegranate-tree which in Migron; and the people that were with him were about six hundred men.
The Holy Spirit also testifies unto us, for after saying,
And they said unto him, We are come to bind thee and to deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Samson said unto them: Swear unto me, and promise me, that thou wilt not kill me.
Jehovah killeth, and maketh alive; he bringeth down to Sheol, and bringeth up.
God's ark was taken: and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas were slain.
And David said in his heart, I shall now perish one day by the hand of Saul: there is nothing better for me to die than that I should speedily escape into the land of the Philistines; and Saul shall despair of me to seek me any more within all the borders of Israel, and I shall escape out of his hand.
For if Joshua had given them to lie down, he would not have spoken afterward of another day.
As faith Moses, when he was grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter,
Yahweh sent a prophet unto the children of Israel; and he said unto them, "Yahweh saith, the God of Israel, 'I brought thee up out of Egypt, and brought you out of the house of bondage.
But Jonathan Saul's son delighted much in David. And Jonathan told David, saying, Saul my father seeks to kill thee; and now, I pray thee, take heed to thyself in the morning, and abide in a hiding-place and hide thyself;
Into thy hand hath God given the heads of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; Yea, what have I been able to do like you?' And their temper desisted from off him in his speaking this thing.
Shall I then take my bread, and my water, and the flesh of my cattle, which I have killed for my shearers, and give unto men whom For I know not whence they are?
It came to pass that, as soon as he had finished offering the burnt sacrifice behold, Samuel came; and Saul went out to meet him, that he might greet him.
And it cometh to pass, while Saul spake unto the priest, that the noise which in the camp of the Philistines goeth process going on and become great, and Saul saith unto the priest, `Remove thy hand.'
So all the trees said unto the thornbush, 'You, come dominion over us.'
Samuel told him every bit, and hid nothing from him. And he said, "It is Jehovah I Let him do that which seemeth him."
Now David had said, What was mine to keep this man's spoil in the wilderness, so that there was no loss of anything that was him? he hath only given me evil for good.
And the sons of Israel do the evil thing in the sight of Jehovah, and serve the Baalim,
Ask me never I will not altogether take away a man of thee from mine altar; but that thy eyes may faint and thy soul be spent: and a great part of thy house shall die when they come to man's estate.
And they gave him part of a cake of figs, and some dry grapes; and after the food, the spirit of Jacob him, because he had heard neither eat nor drink three days and nights.
And Jephthah sent again to the king of the children of Ammon,
And David said to Abigail: Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, that sent thee this day to meet me, and blessed be thy speech:
He that pleasure we were sanctified, but by the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once and for evermore.
And the servants of Achis, when they saw David, said unto him: Is not this David the king of the land? Did they not sing unto him in their dances, voice, saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
And David also rose up after him: and going out of the cave cried after Saul, voice, saying, My lord the king. And Saul sought behind him: and David bowing himself down to the ground, worshipped,
Now therefore, let not my blood fall to the ground before the face of Jehovah; for the king of Israel is come out to seek a flea, as when one doth hunt a partridge in the mountains.
And Yahweh said unto him, "Peace be with you. Thou shalt not afraid; thou shalt not die."
The men of Ephraim were called to armor, and they crossed over to Zaphon and said unto Jephthah, "Why didst thou cross over and fight against the Ammonites, and why didst thou not call us to go with thee? We will burning by down thy house, over thee with fire."
If thy father should actually miss me, then say, David asked earnestly leave of me that he might run to Bethlehem his city; for there is a yearly sacrifice there for all the house.
And one another, answer voice, And who is their father? therefore it became a proverb: Is Saul also among the prophets?
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and set themselves in strife commandment against Gibeah as aforetime.
even as it is written, To-day if thou wilt let his voice and hear, be not hard of heart, as when ye made him wroth.
And they found an Egyptian, man in the field and brought him to David, and they gave him victuals and he ate; they also gave him water.
They cut off his head, stripped off his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines all around, to carry the tidings to the house of their idols, and to the people.
And Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him, and not one of his words fell to the ground.
and not that he can offer himself the countries, and times, as the high priest enters into the sanctuary year by year with blood not his own,
And thy seed and your vineyards he doth tithe, and hath given unto his eunuchs, and to his servants.
For ye both sympathised with captives and accepted with joy the plunder of thy goods, knowing that ye have you a better substance, and an abiding one.
After which David's heart struck him, because he had cut off the hem of Saul's robe.
for he put his life in his hand, and struck the Philistine, and Yahweh woven a great victory for all Israel. Thou saw it, and rejoiced. Why then will ye have sinned against innocent blood, to kill David without a cause?"
Saul said unto the Kenites that "Go, depart, go down from the midst of the Amalekites, and David lest I destroy thee with them; for thou showed kindness unto all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt." So Kain departed from among the Amalekites.
Now the name of the man was Nabal; and the name of his wife Abigail. This woman was intelligent and had a fair face: yet the man was surly and that which was evil in his doings. He was of the house of Caleb was Achsah.
Saul sent to Jesse, saying, "Please let David stand before me; for he hath found favor in my sight."
When I had smitten the trumpet, I and all that are with me, then had smitten the trumpets also on every side of all the camp, and shout, 'For Yahweh and for Gideon!'"
And the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together to Masphath, and the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. And when the children of Israel heard this, they were afraid of the Philistines.
And Samuel said unto him, What hast thou done? Saul answered: Because I saw that the people slipt from me, and thou wast not come according to the days appointed, and the Philistines were gathered together in Machmas,
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee: for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them.
We would that each one of you may show the same diligence to the fullness of hope even unto the end,
And there is a man of the hill-country of Ephraim, and his name Micah,
And they found among the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead, four hundred young virgins that had not known with a man, and they brought them unto the camp at Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
And again Jehovah said, Samuel. And Samuel arose, and went to Eli and said, Here am thou; for thou surely said my name. But he answered and said, I holding my son; go to thy rest again.
And Samuel said, Bring ye near unto me Agag the king of Amalek. And Agag came unto him gaily. And Agag said, Surely the bitterness of death is old.
There was a certain Levite, that dwelt upon the side of mount Ephraim, who took a wife of Bethlehem Juda:
And the children of Israel did that which was evil again in the sight of Jehovah: and he delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
The children of Israel again did that which was evil in Yahweh's Yahweh sight; and delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
And he riseth early in the morning, in the fifth day to go, and the father of the young woman saith, `Support, I pray thee, thy heart;' and they have tarried until the turning of the day, and they eat, both of them.
Therefore he is the mediator of a new covenant, since a death hath occurred for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first covenant, that they that have been called may receive the promise of the everlasting inheritance.
and go forth into the field, and gather their vineyards, and tread, and make praises, and go into the house of their god, and eat and drink, and revile Abimelech.
The children of Israel said unto Jehovah, "We have sinned! Know ye unto us as is good unto thee; only deliver us, please, today."
Now therefore if thou have any thing at hand, though it were but five loaves, give me, or whatsoever thou canst find.
And ye shall now risen up against my father's house, and have killed his sons seventy men upon one stone, and have made Abimelech the son of his handmaid king over the inhabitants of Sichem, because he is thy brother:
Then said Jonathan Behold, we will pass over to the men, and we will shew ourselves unto them.
And Saul saith unto Samuel, `I have sinned, for I passed over the command of Jehovah, and thy words; because I have feared the people, I also hearken unto their voice;
But a certain fearful seeking of judgment, and fiery zeal, about to devour the opposers;
Fear not: for the hand of my father Saul shall not find thee, and thou shalt reign over Israel, and I shall be next unto thee, yea, and my father knoweth this.
And they make a covenant both of them before Jehovah; and David abideth in the forest, and Jonathan hath gone to his house.
For such a chief priest did become us -- gracious, harmless, undefiled, separate from the wicked, and become above the heavens;
If thou wilt fear Jehovah, and serve him, and hearken unto his voice, and not provoke the mouth of Jehovah: then shall both thee, and the king that reigneth over you, be followers of Jehovah thy God.
And the servant-wife he had in Shechem had a son by him, and he called his name Abimelech.
The men of Israel had sworn at Mizpah, saying, "None of us shall give his daughter to Benjamin as a wife."
Wherefore Jehovah the God of Israel saith, I said indeed, Thy house, and the house of thy father should walked before me for ever. But now Jehovah saith, Be it far from me; for them that honor me I will honor, and they that despise me shall be lightly esteemed.
that same night, Yahweh said unto him, "Take thy father's bull, even the second bull seven years old, and throw down the altar of Baal, that thy father hath, and cut down the Asherah, that is thereby.
And when ye saw that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against thee, ye said unto me, Nay; but a king shall reign over us: when Jehovah thy God was thine anointed.
So that we may confidently write: Jehovah is my on I will not fear what man shall do unto me?
as it is written, "Today if thou wilt hear his voice, don't harden thy heart, as in the rebellion."
And he went unto his father's house at Ophrah, and slew his brethren the sons of Jerubbaal, being threescore and ten persons, upon one stone: notwithstanding yet Jotham the youngest son of Jerubbaal was left; for he hid himself.
And they left Jehovah the God of their fathers, who had brought them forth out of the land of Egypt: and they followed foreign gods, and the gods of the people that dwelt round about them, and they adored them: and they provoked Jehovah to anger.
For God is my witness how I long after thee all in bowels of Christ Jesus.
For in that, wherein he himself hath suffered and been tempted, he is able to succour them also that are tempted.
not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as a custom of certain , but exhorting, and so much more as ye see the day coming nigh.
And Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan: and Saul sware, As Jehovah liveth, he shall not be slain.
And Jonathan hath been answereth Saul, `David earnestly asked of me unto Beth-Lehem,
And he said, Behold, I am come to do ye have chosen. And he took away the old decree, that he might put the new commandment in its place.
And he inquired of Yahweh for him, and gave him provisions and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine."
And Ehud, escaped as they delayed. He passed by the sculptured stones, and escaped to Seirah.
Then Zebul said unto him, Now where is thy loud speech when ye said, Who is Abimelech that we are to be his servants, Is not this the people that thou were rating so low? Go out now, and fight upon them.
And the Philistines have taken the ark of God, and bring it in from Eben-Ezer unto Ashdod,
And Saul, inquired of God, saying, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? But he gave him no answer that day.
If the man said unto him, "Let the fat burn first, and then take as much as thy soul desires"; then he would say, "No, but ye shall give it unto me now; and if not, I will take it by force."
David asked Ahimelech, "Is there not at thy disposal a spear or a sword? For I took neither my sword nor my weapons with me for the matter was urgent." king's
And the people sendeth to Shiloh, and they take up thence the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of Hosts, inhabiting the cherubs, and there two sons of Eli, with the ark of the covenant of God, Hophni and him Phinehas.
And it cometh to pass, at his mentioning the ark of God, that he falleth from off the throne backward, by the side of the gate, and his neck is broken, and he dieth, for the man old and heavy, and he hath judged Israel forty years.
And she set it before Saul and his servants, and they did eat. And they arose, and went away the same night.
And (as it may be said) even Levi that received tithes, paid tithes in Abraham:
And when his servants said these words unto David, he was well pleased to be the son-in-law of the king. And the days were yet not old.
The angel of Yahweh came and sat under the oak that was at Ophrah, that belonged to Jehoash the Abiezrite; and Gideon his son was threshing wheat in the winepress to hide it from the Midianites.
Wherefore, after he had patiently endured, he obtained the promise.
For he of whom these things are spoken pertaineth to another tribe, which no man gave attendance at the altar.
David departed thence, and escaped unto the cave of Adullam. When his brethren, and all his household father's heard, they came down to him there.
Then the princes of the Philistines went forth: and it came to pass, after they went forth, that David behaved himself more soberly than all the servants of Saul; that his name was much set by.
Please don't away, until I come unto you, and bring forth my present, and lay it before you." He said, "I shall wait until ye come back."
For ye are not come unto the mount that should be touched, and that burned with fire, nor unto blackness, and darkness, and tempest,
And she said, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. And he awoke out of sleep and said, I will go forth as at the other times before, and shake myself. And he wist not that Jehovah was departed from him.
And the golden mice according to the number of the cities of the Philistines, of the five fenced provinces, from the city to the village that was without wall, and to the great Abel (the stone) whereon they set down the ark of Jehovah, which was until that day in the field of Josue the Bethsamite.
So Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head, and commander over them. And Jephthah spoke all his words before Yahweh at Mizpah.
He went up thither to Penuel, and spoke unto them in the chariot: and the men of Penuel answer him as the men of Succoth had answered.
But one of the servants, told Abigail the wife of Nabal, voice, saying, Behold David sent messengers out of the wilderness, to salute our master, and he rejected them.
Nevertheless thou hast done well by sharing with me in my affliction.
Again he limiteth a certain day, saying in David, To day, after so long a time, as it is above spoken: To day if ye shall hear his voice, harden not your hearts.
so also the Christ, once having sacrificed to bear the iniquity of many, the second time, apart from a sin-offering, shall appear, to them lie in wait for him, -- to salvation!
But Zabulon and Nephtali offer their lives in the region of Merome.
And Saul is abiding at the extremity of Gibeah under the pomegranates which in Migron, and the people that with him, about six hundred men,
Gideon said unto God, "Don't let thy measure, when thou be kindled against me, and I will speak but this once. Please let me make a just this once with the trial fleece. Let it now be dry only on the fleece, and upon all the ground ye shall have dew."
and others of mockings and scourgings did receive trial, and yet of bonds and imprisonment;
and the third day thou dost surely come down, and hast come in unto the place where thou wast hidden in the day of the work, and hast remained near the stone Ezel.
not abandoning our gathering together as is the encouraging habit of some, but each other, and by so much more as ye see the day drawing at hand.
And when he had shewn them, they smote the city with the edge of the sword; but that man and all his kindred they let go:
For this is the will of trying Israel by them, whether they would hearken unto the commandments of Jehovah, which he had given unto their fathers by Moses.
He in the days of his flesh, having offer up prayers and petitions with strong crying and tears to him that were able to save him from death, and having been heard for his godly fear,
Then the lords of the Philistines brought up to her seven green cords which had not been dried, and she bound him with them.
Then said Saul unto Jonathan Give me what things thou hast done. And Jonathan called his parable, and said, Surely I took a little honey, upon the end of my beam; and now I perish, die.
And the men of Israel are called from Naphtali, and from Asher, and from all Manasseh, and pursue after Midian.
Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling.
He shall keep the feet of his holy ones, But the wicked shall be put to silence in darkness; for no man shall prevail by strength.
For this child I prayed; and Jehovah hath given me my petition which I asked of him:
But one of the young men told Abigail Nabal's wife, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to salute our master; as he railed upon them.
I heard that thy shepherds that were with us in the desert were shearing: we not molested them, neither was there ought missing to them of the flock all the all the while they were with us in Carmel.
Then the trees said unto the vine, Thou come and be king over us.
for God it is that worketh in thee both to shall and to work for His good will.
And the men of Israel that soul, and the men of Benjamin were dismayed because they saw that disaster was closing in upon them.
Isn't this David, of whom people sang one to another in dances, saying, 'Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?'"
And the Philistine said, I have defied the ranks of Israel this day; give me a man, that we may battle together.
And Saul was afraid of David, because Jehovah was with him, and had departed from Saul.
And of a new covenant he is mediator, that, death having come, for redemption of the transgressions under the first covenant, them called may receive the promise of the age-during inheritance,
And lay until Samson midnight, and arose at midnight, and took the gates of the gate of the city, and the two posts, and went away with them, bar and all, and put them upon his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of an hill that is before Hebron.
Then Saul said unto his servant, But if we shall come, what shall we take the man? all our bread is gone, and we have no oblation to take to the man of God; and what shall we do?
After they moved it, the hand of Yahweh was against the city, and a very great confusion, and he struck the men of the city from the youngest to the first-born, and tumors to break forth upon them.
Abimelech also heard that the men of the tower of Sichem were gathered together,
so Christ also, having been offered once to bear the iniquity of many, shall appear the second time, without iniquity, to them that are eagerly lie in wait for him, to save.
And the men of Judah said, Why do ye rise up against us? And they answered, To bind Samson shall we come up, to do unto him as he hath done unto us.
Gideon said, "Therefore when Yahweh hath delivered Zebah and Zalmunna into my hand, then I will tear thy flesh with the thorns of the wilderness and with briers."
But if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, but shall rebel against his words, the hand of Jehovah shall be upon thee, and upon your fathers.
And they come in over against Gibeah -- ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel -- and the battle grievous, and they have not known that the evil is striking against them.
only in victuals, and drinks, and diverse baptisms, and ordinances fleshly -- even to the time of reformation imposed upon .
Remember them that are in bonds, as bound with them; and they that are ill-treated, since thou art also in the body.
While Saul spoken unto the priest, the tumult that was in the camp of the Philistines journeyed and multitude; and Saul said unto the priest, "Withdraw thy hand!"
And the children of Israel did put away Baalim and Ashtaroth, and served Jehovah only.
For the word of God liveth, and active and sharper than any double-edged sword, and piercing as far as the district of soul, and spirit, both joints and marrow, and able to judge the reflections and thoughts of the heart.
Jehovah, when ye went out from Seir, provoke as an army from the field of Edom, the earth trembled, The heavens were troubled, and the clouds dropped water.
And David went up from thence to Mizpah, of Moab. He said unto the king of Moab, "Please let my father and my mother stay with thee until For I know what God will do for me."
I give thanks unto my God upon all the remembrance of you,
And David said to Achis: If I have found favour in thy sight, let a place be given me in one of the cities of the land, that I may dwell there: for why should thy servant dwell in the royal city with thee?
And Michal causeth David to go down through the window, and he goeth and fleeth, and escapeth;
And Saul and all the people that were with him assembled themselves, and they came unto the battle: and, behold, every man's sword was against his fellow, and there was a very great discomfiture.
And thou shalt go down before me to Gilgal; and behold, I will come down to thee, to offer up burnt-offerings, to sacrifice sacrifices of peace-offerings: seven days shalt thou wait, until I come unto thee and inform thee what thou shalt do.
And the people returned unto the camp: and the ancients of Israel said, Wherefore hath Jehovah defeated us to day before the Philistines? Let us fetch unto us the ark of the covenant of Jehovah from Silo, and let it come in the midst of us, that it may save us from the hand of our enemies.
Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended: but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth unto those things which are before,
The princes of Succoth said, "Are the hand of Zebah and Zalmunna now in thy hand, that we should give bread to thy army?"
I exhort Euodia, and I exhort Syntyche, to think like manner in Jehovah.
And Eli called Samuel, and said, Samuel, my son. And he said, Here am I.
And Judah took Gaza, and the border thereof, and Ashkelon, and the border thereof, and Ekron, and the border thereof.
according to zeal persecuting the church, according to the righteousness in the law being blameless.
The troops took from the plunder, sheep and cattle, the best of the things devoted destroyed, to sacrifice to Yahweh thy God at Gilgal."
And the Sidonians and Amalek and Midian, press you down, and answered unto thy cry did I not deliver you out of their hand?
This I pray, that thy love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and all discernment;
Her wise ladies answer her, Yea, she returned answer within herself,
being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
but on the third day thou shalt go down quickly, and come to the place where thou didst hide thyself in the day of the matter, and abide by the stone Ezel.
But David pursued, he and four hundred men: for two hundred abode faint behind, which were so that they could not pass over the brook Besor.
Now the God of peace, that made that great keeper of his flock, even our Lord Jesus, risen from the dead through the blood of the everlasting covenant,
And all they of the land came to a wood: and there was honey on the ground.
Then Jonathan called David and told him all these words, saying, and Jonathan brought in David unto Saul, and he was before him, as he had been yesterday and the day aforetime.
From the shadows the stars fought. From their courses, they fought against Sisera.
And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that said, Shall Saul reign over us? bring the men, that we may killed them.
And they say, `Lo, a festival of Jehovah in Shiloh, from time to time which on the north of Beth-El, at the rising of the sun, in the highway that goeth up from Beth-El unto Shechem, and on the south of Lebonah.'
But they did not even hearken unto their judges, for they went a whoring after other gods, and bowed themselves unto them; and they turned quickly out of the way that their fathers had henceforth bereave in, obeying the commandments of Jehovah; they did not so.
Let married life be exalted in the sight of all of you and not made unclean: for men dealt treacherously in married life is judged by God.
if ye chastening endure, as to sons God beareth Himself unto you, for that is a son whom a father doth not chasten?
And Samuel stood no more to see Saul until the day of his death: nevertheless Samuel mourned for Saul: and Jehovah repented that he had made Saul king over Israel.
Now Zebah and Zalmunna were in Karkor, and their hosts with them, about fifteen thousand men, all that were left of all the hosts of the children of the east: for there fell a hundred and twenty thousand men that drew sword.
And he said, It is peaceable: I am come to offer sacrifice unto Jehovah, be ye sanctified, and come with me into the sacrifice. And he sanctified Isai and his sons, and called them unto the sacrifice.
But I rejoiced greatly, Lord in length at lord, now that ye have revived thy thinking of me, though ye did also surely think [of me], but lacked opportunity.
then he hath said, "Behold, I am come to do thy will." He taketh away the first, that he may establish the second,
And the sound of a trumpet, and the voice of words, which they that heard excused themselves, that the word should not be spoken unto them:
For then must he often have suffered since the foundation of the world: but now once in the end of the world hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.
And Jonathan cried after the lad, Make haste, speed, stay not! And gathered up the lad Jonathan's arrows, and came to his master.
Then Saul said unto his servant, "But, behold, if we shall come, what should we bring the man? For the bread is spent in our sacks, and there is not a present to bring to the man of God. What seest we have?"
And Saul said unto him, Wherefore have ye conspired against me, thou and the son of Jesse, in that thou hast given him bread, and a sword, and hast inquired of God for him, that he should rise against me as a lier-in-wait, as at this day?
But now, thy kingdom shall not endure. Yahweh hath sought for himself a man according to his own heart, and Yahweh hath appointed him as leader over his people, because ye have not kept what Yahweh commanded you."
I prayed for this lad, and Yahweh hath given me my supplication that I asked from him.
we cast the south of the Cherethite, and against that which unto Judah, and against the south of Caleb and Ziklag, we burned with fire.'
And, behold, Saul came after the herd out of the field; and Saul said, What aileth the people that they weep? And they told him the tidings of the men of Jabesh.
So Yahweh sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor The commander of his host was Sisera, and he dwelt in Harosheth Haggoyim.
My heart is toward the governors of Israel, that offered themselves willingly Yahweh! Bless among the people.
But the fig-tree said unto them, Should I leave my sweetness, and my good fruit, and go to wave over the trees?
And when the flame from the altar went up towards heaven, the angel of the lord ascended also in the fire. And when Manue and his wife, saw this, they fell creeping things that creep upon the ground.
And others had trial of cruel scourgings, yea, mockings and moreover of bonds and imprisonment:
So Achish said, Have ye not made a raid to-day? And David said, Against the south of Judah, and against the south of the Jerahmeelites, and against the south of the Kenites.
So they sent messengers to seek round Beth-el. (Now the name of the city in old time was Luz.)
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Go ye every man to his city.
and now, rise by night, thou and the people that with thee, and lay wait in the field,
Only to-day I began to inquire of God for him. Far be it from me that the king should impute anything against his servant or against my father's household, for thy servant hath not known any of this matter, little or much."
and her father saith, I surely said, that thou didst surely hatred her, and I give her unto thy companion; is not her sister -- the young one -- better than she? Let her alone: I pray thee, unto thee, instead of her.'
And Sisera fled on foot unto the tent of Jael the wife of Heber, the Kenite; for there was peace between Jabin the king of Hazor, and the house of Heber, the Kenite.
And David said to Abner Art not thou a valiant man? and who is like unto thee in Israel? wherefore then hast thou not kept thy lord the king? for there came one of the people in to destroy the king thy lord.
And the princes of the Philistines were gathered together to make a great sacrifice unto Dagon their god, and to be glad; for they said, Our god hath given into our hand Samson our enemy consumed.
So Michal lowered David through the window, and he went and fled and escaped.
And the children of Ammon, were summoned, and they camped in Gilead. And the Israelites gathered and camped at Mizpah.
Ask thy servants, and they shall tell you. Let the young men find favor in thy sight because we are come upon a feast day. Please give whatsoever thou hast upon hand for thy servants, and for thy son, David."
For the word of God living and operative, and sharper than any two-edged sword, and penetrating to course of soul, and spirit, joints and both of marrow, and a discerner the thoughts and intents of heart.
The Sidonians also, and the Amalekites, and David and the Maonites, did ye oppress thee; and cried unto me, and I delivered you out of their hand.
he went up into mount Selmon he and all his people with him: and took an axe, he cut down the bough of a tree, and laying it upon his shoulder and carrying it, he said unto his companions: What ye see me do, do you out of hand.
The Philistines set themselves in array against Israel. When they joined battle, Israel was defeated by the Philistines, that killed about four thousand men of the host in the field.
And the children of Benjamin saw that they were confounded: and the men of Israel had given way before Benjamin, putting refuge in watchmen that were to make the ambush for Gibeah.
But the people refused to listen unto the voice of Samuel; and they said, "No; but we shall have a king over us,
And he had greaves of brass upon his loins; a buckler of brass covered his shoulders.
Let us hold fast the confession of the hope unwavering, (for he faithful that hath promised;)
Not looked every one to a separate good, but remembering the things others also.
Saul's servants said unto him, "See now, an evil spirit from God troubles thee.
And Jael went out to Sisera, and said unto him, Come in, my lord, come in unto me with a high hand. So he entered into her tent, and she put a covering over him.
And the men of Shechem set liers in wait for him in the top of the mountains, and they along that robbed all that came by them: and it was told Abimelech.
And they turning aside the gods of the stranger out of their midst, and serve Jehovah, and His soul is grieved with the misery of Israel.
And David seeth that Saul hath come out to seek his life, and David in the wilderness of Ziph, in a forest.
And the kine took the straight way that leadeth to Bethsames, and they went along the way, lowing as they went; and turned not aside neither to the right hand nor to the left; and the lords of the Philistines followed them even unto the borders of Bethsames.
And the men of Israel saw that they were in a strait (for the people were distressed); and the people hid themselves in caves, and in thickets, and in cliffs, and in strongholds, and in pits.
Then the king said, "You must surely die, Ahimelech, thou, and all thy father's household!"
And Jephthah came to Mizpah, to his house, and behold, his daughter came out to meet him with tambours and with dances; and she was an only child: besides her he had neither son nor daughter.
And the princes of the Philistines went forth; and it came to pass, when they went forth, that David succeeded better than all the servants of Saul; and his name was much esteemed.
And six hundred men from the descendants of Dan, armed with their weapons of war, were standing at the entrance of the gate.
to them that were in Racal, to them that were in the cities of the Jerahmeelites, to them that were in the cities of the Kenites that
looking diligently, lest any man be wanting unto the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness That leapeth up do hinder, and by it the countries, and be defiled.
For ye know that even when he afterward desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no place for repentance mind though he sought it diligently with tears.
And concerning the word which I and thou hast spoken, Jehovah be between thee and me for ever.
For when God sware unto Abraham, because there was no greater vow, he made it by himself,
And some of the Hebrews went over the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead. As for Saul, he was yet in Gilgal, and all the people followed him trembling.
And the name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam, the daughter of Ahimaaz: and the name of the captain of his host was Abner the son of Ner, Saul's uncle.
And behold, as Barak pursued Sisera, Jael went out to meet him, and said unto him, Come, and I will shew thee the man whom thou seekest. And he entered into her , and behold, Sisera lay dead, and the pin was in his temples.
The river Kishon swept them away, that ancient river, the river Kishon. My soul, march upon them.
And she said, The glory is departed from Israel, for the ark of God is taken.
And Jehovah spake unto him: Peace be with thee: fear not, thou shalt not die.
Then Samuel said unto Saul, "Yahweh sent me to anoint thee as king over his people Israel. So then listen to the words of Yahweh!
And she made him liest down, upon her knees; and she called for a man and had his seven loops of hair cut off; and while it was being done he began to weak and his strength in him.
Saul said unto that Michal "Why hast thou deceived me thus, and let my enemy go, that he is escaped?" Michal answer Saul, "He said unto me, 'Let me go! Why should I kill you?'"
And David saith unto his men, `Gird ye upon each his sword;' and they gird upon each his sword, and David also girdeth upon his sword, and there go up after David about four hundred men, and two hundred have remained by the vessels.
So Delilah said unto Samson, Teach us now what is the mystery of thy might, and how ye may be put in bonds and made weak.
Since therefore it remains for some to enter into it, and the ones to whom the gospel was proclaimed previously did not enter because of disobedience,
Then Delilah said unto Samson, Hitherto have ye asked mocked me with a perverse mouth; now say behold, how shall ye be put in bands? And he said unto her, If thou buy the seven loops of my hair woven into the cloth thou makest and appointed with the pin, I shall faint and shall be as any other man.
And the children of Benjamin did not dispossess the Jebusites, the inhabitants of Jerusalem; but the Jebusites dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
And the whole weight of the battle was turned upon Saul: and the archers overtook him; and he was grievously wounded by reason of the archers.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Stay, that I may tell thee that which Jehovah hath spoken unto me this night. And he said unto him, Say on.
For if the word spoken through angels was binding and every transgression and so disobedience received a just penalty,
And David saith unto Ahimelech the priest, `The king hath commanded me a matter, and he saith unto me, Let no man know anything of the matter concerning which I send thee, and which I have commanded thee; and the young men I have cause him to know at such and such a place;
And as he did so year by year, when she went up to the house of Jehovah, so she provoked her; therefore she wept, and did not eat.
And Samson went and captured three hundred foxes, and he took torches. He turned them tail, to tail, and he set one torch between two tails.
And he made himself a two-edged sword, with a haft in the midst of the length of the palm of the hand, and was girded therewith under his garment on the right thigh.
If there be therefore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bowels and tender mercies,
And David took these sayings, and one that feared Achish, the king of Gath.
So Saul tried unto pin David unto the wall with the weapon, And he eluded Saul, that he struck the spear into the wall, and David fled and escaped that same night.
And Saul asked counsel of God, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? But he answer him not that day.
For every high priest taken from among men, is ordained for men in the things that appertain unto God, that he may offer up gifts and sacrifices for sins:
And the measure, of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of spoilers that spoiled them; and he sold them into the hand of their enemies round about, so that they could not any more stand before their enemies.
Then the princes of the Philistines said, "What about these Hebrews?" Achish said unto the princes of the Philistines, "Isn't this David the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who hath been with me these days, or rather these years, and I have found no fault in him since he fell away to today?"
God having provided some better thing for us, that they without us should not be made perfect.
His lord said unto him, "We won't turning aside into the city of a foreigner that is not of the children of Israel; but we will pass over to Gibeah."
And Saul said unto Samuel: I have sinned because I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and thy words, and one that feared the people, and obeying their voice.
and the other out of love, having known that for defence of the gospel I am set:
Now the Philistines, having received the ark of God, took it with them from Eben-ezer to Ashdod.
Nevertheless Saul and the host spared Agag and the best of the sheep and the cattle and the second best of the young fatlings and all that was valuable; they were not willing to utterly destroy them. But all the possessions that were despised nor worthless, they utterly destroyed.
And David said unto Abiathar, I knew it that day, when mischief, O The lovingkindness was there, that he would surely tell Saul: I have occasioned the death of all the persons of thy father's house.
God listened unto the voice of Manoah, and the angel of God came again to the woman as she sat in the field, but Manoah, her husband, wasn't with her.
And they smote the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon: and the people were very faint.
Now Saul and they and all the men of Israel were in the valley of Elah the Philistines.
And behold, Barak was pursuing Sisera, and Jael went out to meet him, and she said unto him, "Come, and I will show thee the man whom thou art seeking." And he came with her, and saw that Sisera was lying dead with the peg in his temple.
And it was reported to Saul that David had fled to Gath, so he no more Sought for him.
And the women sang as they danced, and they said, "Saul hath struck down his thousands, but David his ten thousands!"
what seest we do for them -- for them that are left -- for wives, and we -- we have sworn by Jehovah not to give unto them of our daughters unto wives?'
The children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and set themselves in array against Gibeah, as at the other times.
And David swore and many times and said, Thy father surely knows that I have found favour in thy sight: and he hath device, Jonathan shall not know this, lest he be grieved; but indeed Jehovah liveth, and thy soul liveth, there is but a step between me and death.
The angel of Jehovah put forth the tip of the rod, which he held in his hand, and touch the flesh and the unleavened loaves: and there arose a fire from the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened loaves: and the angel of Jehovah vanished out of his sight.
And Saul saith unto Samuel, `Because -- I have hearkened to the voice of Jehovah, and I walk in the way which Jehovah hath sent me, and bring in Agag king of Amalek, and Amalek I have devoted;
Then Abigail hurried and took two hundred loaves of bread, two bottles of wine, five sheep dressed, five seahs of parched grain, a hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred loaves of figs, and laid them on donkeys.
And the sons of Israel draw near unto the sons of Benjamin on the second day,
And they go up in unto the city; they are coming in the midst of the city, and lo, Samuel cometh forth to meet them, to go up to the high place;
And the Philistine drew near morning and evening, and presented himself forty days.
As she continued praying before Jehovah, Eli saw her mouth.
As faith Joseph, as he was dying, mentioned concerning the exodus of the sons of Israel and gave instructions about his bones.
None of theirs also came missing from the least to the greatest, even sons and daughters, from the plunder up to all that they had taken for a prey. David brought back Laban all these things.
And his fellow answer and said, This is nothing else save the sword of Gideon the son of Joash a man of Israel; for into his hand hath God delivered Midian, and all the host.
and the man saith unto him, `Let them surely make a incense (as to-day) with the fat, then take unto thee as thy soul desireth;' and he hath said unto him, `Surely now thou dost amazed, and if not -- I have taken by strength.'
He took the elders of the city and the thorn bushes and briers of the wilderness, and he trampled the men of Succoth with them.
The things which thou hast both learned, and received, and heard, and found in me, these do ye, and the God of peace shall be with you.
But in them there is a reminder of sins year by year.
But made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the likeness of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men:
And with whom was he angry forty years, Is it not with them that sinned, whose dead bodies fell in the wilderness?
And David fleeth from Naioth in Ramah, and cometh, and saith before Jonathan `What have I done? what mine iniquity? and what my sin before thy father, that he is seeking my life?'
And Achis said unto his servants: Thou saw the man was mad: why hast thou brought him unto me?
Look, find out all of the hiding places where he hides. Then return unto me with dependable information, and I will go with you. And then if he be there in the land, then will I seek him among all the thousands of Judah."
Then the king sent to call Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests that were in Nob; and they came all of them unto the king.
And as David returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistine in his hand.
So when they had eaten and wine in the bread chamber, Hannah arose. Now Eli the priest sat by the pillars of the gate of the temple of Jehovah.
And it came to pass at that time Samuel knew not of Jehovah, and the revelation of the word of Jehovah had not come unto him.
He answer them: Go in peace, Jehovah looketh in the way, and the journey that thou go.
He bare a son, whose name was Saul, a young and handsome man. And there was not a man from the Israelites more handsome than he wast; from his shoulders up, he was taller than all the people.
And Saul saith, `Draw ye nigh hither all, the chiefs of the people, and know and see in what this sin hath been to-day;
Let us hold fast unto the confession of our hope without wavering, for the one that promised is faithful.
Moreover Jehovah will also deliver Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines: and to morrow shalt thou and thy sons be with me: Jehovah also shall deliver the host of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
And Gaal, the son of Ebed said, Who is Abimelech and who is Shechem, that we are to be his servants, Is it not lawful for the son of Jerubbaal and Zebul his captain to serve the men of Hamor the father of Shechem? But why shall we be his servants,
And see how great this one , to whom also a tenth Abraham the patriarch did give out of the best of the spoils,
Hear, ye kings; hear, ye princes, I, unto Jehovah, I -- I do sing, I sing praises unto Jehovah, God of Israel.
Therefore the men of Jabesh said, "Tomorrow we shall come forth unto you, and ye shall do with us all that is good in you."
And Abraham ran unto Eli he said, Here am I, for thou said my name. And Eli said, I said not thy name; go to thy rest again. So he returned unto his bed.
War from heaven was against them, the stars remaining in their commandment and fought against Sisara. courses
When they drew nigh unto the house of Micah, heard a voice which was not strange unto them, that of the young Levite, they went out of their way to his place, and said unto him, How camest thou hither? and what do ye in this place? And why art thou here?
Thy servant struck both the lion and the uncircumcised Philistine bear. This shall be as one of them, since he hath defied the hosts of the living God."
And as they pressed hard upon them, the ancients of Galaad went to fetch Jephte out of the land of Tob to help them:
Be not forgetful to entertain strangers: for thereby some have entertained angels unawares.
And Judah went up; and Jehovah delivered the Canaanite, and the Perizzite, into their hand, and they smote them in Bezek, ten thousand men.
But his sons did not walked in his ways; they turned aside after gain, they took bribes, and they perverted justice.
And if thy father consider my liberty judged away, say, David asked to me for himself that he might go to Beth-lehem, to his city: for it is the time that his house that they may sacrifice year by year.
And Samuel turneth about to go, and he layeth hold on the skirt of his upper garment -- and it is rent!
And Delilah said unto Samson, Tell me, I pray thee, thy great strength wherein lieth, and wherewith thou mightest be bound to afflict thee.
Samson went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines.
If he shall say, It is well: thy servant shall have peace: but if he be wroth, know that his malice cometh to its height.
Howbeit the hair of his head began to grow again after that he was shaven.
And Achis said unto him: whom hast thou rebelled against to day? David answered: Against the south of Juda, and against the south of Jerameel, and against the south of Ceni.
And Michal took the image, and laid it in the bed, and put the snare of goats' at the head of the ram. and covered it with the coverlet.
After Abimelech Tola, the son of Puah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar, arose to save Israel. He lived in Shamir in the hill country of Ephraim.
that ye may approve what is superior, in order that ye may be sincere and blameless in the day of Christ,
So Jonathan said unto his armor bearer, "Come, let us go over to the garrisons of these uncircumcised; perhaps Yahweh shall deed for us, for there is no hindrance for Yahweh to save by the countries, nor by few."
And Saul encamped in the hill of Hachilah, which faces the wilderness, by the way side. And David abode in the wilderness; and when he saw that Saul was come after him into the wilderness,
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, Cease not to cry unto Jehovah our God for us, that he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
Let us then go out to him without the Plain of the camp, taking his reproach upon our lives.
"Then all the trees said unto the bramble, 'Come and reign over us.'
And they turned into it, to lodge there. And when they were come in, they sat in the street of the city, for no man would receive them to lodge.
Now Samuel did not yet know Jehovah, neither had the word of Jehovah yet been revealed unto him.
Then Abdon, the son of Hillel the Pirathonite died and was buried in Pirathon, in the land of Ephraim in the hill country of the Amalekites.
At the end of the two months she returned unto her father, and he did unto her according to his vow; and she did not sleep with a man. And it became a annual custom in Israel
And there lacked unto them hath not , from small unto great, and unto sons and daughters, and from the spoil, even unto all that they had brought unto themselves, the whole hath David brought back,
And it was so, as she rode upon the ass, that she came down by the covert to the hill, and, behold, David and his men came down against her; and she met them.
And it is true that there have been a few of them priests, because he will not let them in honor,
Not that I seek for the gift, but I seek for the fruit that increases unto thy sake,
When David's servants had made Abigail to Carmel, they spoke unto her, saying, "David hath sent us unto thee, to bring you to him as wife."
for if the word being spoken through messengers did become stedfast, and every transgression and disobedience did receive a just recompense,
Also Judah took Gaza, with its border, and Ashkelon with its border, and Ekron, with its border.
And Heber the Kenite hath been separated from the Kenite, and from the sons of Hobab father-in-law of Moses, and he stretcheth out his tent unto the oak in Zaanaim, which by Kedesh.
And when Jehovah hath done for my lord all them good things which he hath spoken he shall do for thee, and hath made thee a ruler over Israel;
"Tomorrow about this time I will send thee a man out of the land of Benjamin, and ye shall anoint him to be prince over my people Israel. He will save my people out of the hand of the Philistines; for I have told thee, upon my people, because their cry is come to me."
and the tower of Penuel he hath broken down, and slayeth the men of the city.
And they waited till they were ashamed; and behold, he opened not the gates of the upper-chamber, and they took the key, and opened , and behold, their lord lay dead upon the earth.
and the Philistines follow Saul and his sons, and the Philistines smite Jonathan and Abinadab and Malchishua, sons of Saul.
Then let us come near to the throne of grace without fear, that lovingkindness may be given unto us, and we shall be grace for our help in famine.
Every priest indeed stands day by day serving and often offering the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins,
And the battle went sore against Saul, and the archers hit him; and he was sore wounded of the archers.
When Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was afraid and his heart trembled greatly.
So when I saw that there was no help to be had from you, I put my life in my hand, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah gave them unto me: wherefore then are ye come up to me this day to fight with me?
But now him as priest shall higher. because through him God hath made a better covenant with man, according to the gift of better things.
ye shall not harden thy heart, as in the provocation, in the day of the temptation in the wilderness,
The woman hurried and ran, and told her husband, and said unto him, "Behold, the man that came unto me that day hath appeared unto me,"
For all of thou hast conspired against me, and none discloses unto me the making of a covenant between my son, and the son of Jesse! None of thou hast had sympathy for me, nor disclosed unto me that my son commissioned my servant against me to ambush me as hath been done this day!"
And Saul hearkened to the voice of Jehovah swore, Saul and Jonathan liveth, he shall not be put to death,
For the bodies of them whose blood is brought into the holies by the high priest for sin, are burned without the camp.
Then Saul came up to Samuel in the gate of the city, and said, Give me by you, if ye shall be so good, to the house of the seer.
Who through faith wrought righteousness, subdued kingdoms, obtained promises, stopped from the mouth of lions.
David arose, and fled that day for fear of Saul, and went to Achish the king of Gath.
Who made him to anger when he called them? was it not all them that came forth out of Egypt with against Moses?
And the next day again, when they rose in the morning, they found Dagon lying upon his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah: and the head of Dagon, and both the palms of his hands were cut off upon the threshold:
And the demon from Jehovah came upon Saul, and he sat in his house, and held a spear in his hand; and David played with his hand.
Pray for us: for we trust we have a good conscience, in all things willing to live honestly.
Asher hath not dispossessed the inhabitants of Accho, and the inhabitants of Sidon, and Ahlab, and Achzib, and Helbah, and Aphik, and Rehob:
And the heart of the priest shall glad, and he taketh the ephod and the teraphim, and the graven image, and goeth into the midst of the people,
Wherefore now return, and go in peace, that thou displease not the lords of the Philistines.
And unto him by whom the new covenant hath been made between God and man, and to the sign of the blood which saith better things than Abel's blood.
Gideon sent messengers throughout all the hill country of Ephraim, saying, "Come down against Midian, and take before them the waters, as far as Beth Barah, even the Jordan!" So all the men of Ephraim were gathered together, and took the waters as far as Beth Barah, even the the Jordan.
He said unto her, "Stand in the tent door, and if any man cometh and inquires of thee, and saith, 'Is there any man here?' ye shall say, 'No.'"
And Benjamin went forth against them out of Gibeah the second day, and again destroyed to the ground of the children of Israel eighteen thousand men: all these drew the sword.
And he had forty sons, and of them thirty grandsons, mounted upon seventy ass colts, and he judged Israel eight years:
For if the blood of bulls and of goats, and the ashes of an heifer sprinkling the unclean, sanctifieth unto the purifying of the flesh:
He answer him: We came out from Bethlehem Juda, and we go unto our home, which is on the side of mount Ephraim, from whence we went to Bethlehem: and now we go to the house of God, and none shall receive us under his roof:
But we desire earnestly that each one of you shew the same diligence to the full assurance of hope unto the end.
And David said unto Ahimelech the priest, the king hath commanded me a matter, and hath said unto me, Let no man know any thing of the business whereabout I send thee, and that which I have commanded thee: and I have appointed my servants to such and such a place.
And they give unto Caleb Hebron, as Moses hath spoken, and he dispossesseth thence the three sons of Anak?
When David finished speaking these words unto Saul, Saul, said, "Is this thy voice, my son David?" And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
Then Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head, and captain over them: and Jephthah uttered all his words before Jehovah in Mizpeh.
So David came to Saul and entered his service. He beloved him greatly and he began to Saul's armor bearer.
and because of it he is obligated to offer sacrifices for sins for himself also, and unto the people.
Now the Philistine came forth early and late, and he took his stand forty days.
For they disciplined us for a few days according to all that seemed appropriate unto them, but he doeth so for our benefit, in order that we can have a share in his holiness.
Then Jael went out, and found Barak going after Sisera, said unto him, Come ye, and I will let you see the man whom ye seek. And he came into her tent, and saw, and there was Sisera stretched out dead with the tent-pin in his head.
Saul was thirty years old at the beginning of his reign, and he reigned forty and two years over Israel.
But seeing Naas king of the children of Ammon was come against thee, thou said unto me: Nay, but a king shall reign over us: whereas Jehovah thy God was thine anointed.
And Israel setteth liers in wait against Gibeah, round about,
And Saul said unto David, Behold my eldest daughter of Saul, her will I give thee to wife; only be thou valiant for me, and battle Jehovah's battles. But Saul device, My hand shall not be upon him, but the hand of the Philistines shall be upon him.
Saul was told that David had fled to Gath: and he sought no more again for him.
They chose new gods. Then war was in the gates. Because there a shield and spear seen among forty thousand in Israel?
The woman had a calf in the house. She fattened hurried and killed it; and she took flour, and kneaded it, and baked unleavened bread of it.
And the shaft of his spear was like a weaver's beam; and his spear's head weighed six hundred shekels of iron; and the shield-bearer went before him.
For when Moses had given all the ordinances of the law unto the people, he took the blood of goats and young bullocks, with water, and scarlet, wool and hyssop, and put it upon the book itself and upon all the people,
So David and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the Philistines, and took away their cattle, and put them to the sword with great destruction. So David was the salvation of the inhabitants of Keilah.
Take heed to keep open house: because of that which was some have had angels as their guests, without a good it.
And Samuel took a sucking lamb, and offered it for a wholly burnt oblation unto Jehovah: and Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel; and Jehovah heard him.
And he said, Let me go, for there is a solemn sacrifice in the city, one of my brethren hath sent for me: now if I have found favour in thy sight, I will go quickly, and see my brethren. Therefore he came not to the king's table.
They sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath Jearim, saying, "The Philistines have brought back Yahweh's ark. Come down, and bring it up to yourselves."
So let all thine enemies perish, Jehovah! But let them that love him be as the rising of the sun in its might. And the land had rest forty years.
Whose end be destroyed, whose God is their belly; and that speak in their shame, that mind earthly things.
They said, "What one is there of the tribes of Israel that didn't Yahweh to come up to Mizpah?" Behold, none came from Jabesh Gilead unto the camp to the assembly.
And Jonathan smote the armed violence of the Philistines at Gibeah: and it was given to the Philistines that the Hebrews turned against them. And Saul had a horn blown throughout all the land,
And when David came to Ziklag, he sent unto the spoil of the elders of Judah, even to his friends, saying, Behold a present for ye of the spoil of the enemies of Jehovah;
And God did that night, and it was dry upon the fleece only, but also upon all the ground there was dew.
Now a summary of the things whereof we are speaking , We have such a one high priest that hath sat down upon right hand of the throne of the greatness in the heavens; And
And as she was going on her way her husband admonished her to ask a field of her father. And as she sighed sitting upon her ass, Caleb said unto her: What aileth thee?
Gideon made an ephod out of it, and he set it in his city in Ophrah, and all Israel prostituted themselves to it there, and it became a snare to Gideon and his house.
Are there a small thing unbalanced men about me, that thou hast let this person come and do such guile, before me? is such a man enter into my house?
She saith unto him, "Give me a blessing; for that thou hast set me in the land of the South, give me also springs of water." Then Caleb gave her the upper springs and the nether springs.
And he cometh in unto the men of Succoth, and saith, `Lo Zebah and Zalmunna, with whom ye reproached me, saying, Is the hand of Zebah and Zalmunna now in thy hand that we give unto thy men that wearied bread?'
And the man Elkanah goeth up, and all his house, to sacrifice unto Jehovah the sacrifice of the days, and his vow.
And when the ark of the Lord's covenant came into the camp, all Israel cried with a great voice, that the earth was heard with it.
And the men have not been willing to hearken unto him, and the man taketh hold on his concubine, and bringeth forth unto them without, and they know her, and roll themselves upon her all the night, unto the morning, and send her out in the ascending of the dawn;
and he taketh the people, and divideth them into three detachments, and layeth wait in the field, and, lo, looketh, and the people shall going out of the city, and he riseth against them, and smiteth them.
For also our God a consuming fire.
Though I myself should believe on the flesh: if any other man hath whereof to take refuge in the flesh, I have more:
And she called the child Ichabod, saying, The glory is departed from Israel; because the ark of God was taken, and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
And finding a jawbone, even the jawbone of an ass which lay there, catching it up, be slew therewith a thousand men.
Now Samuel was serving before Jehovah, as a lad wearing a linen ephod.
And the lords of the Philistines passed on by hundreds and by thousands, and David and his men passed on in the rearward with Achish.
For a high priest such as this indeed is fitting for us, holy, innocent, undefiled, separated from the wicked; and having become exalted above the heavens,
And Gideon said unto God, If thou wilt save Israel by mine, hand, as thou hast said,
Judging a portion with the shame of Christ to be better than all the riches of Egypt; for he looked forward of his hire.
Our brother Timothy hath been let out of the dungeon: and if he cometh here in a moment, he and I will come unto thee together.
For all things I have strength, in Christ's strengthening me;
choosing rather to share sick treatment with God's people, than to enjoy the lusts of sin for a time;
Samuel did not see Saul again until the day of his death, but Samuel mourned over Saul, and Yahweh regretted that he made Saul king over Israel.
And God also repaid all the wickedness of the men of Shechem upon their heads, and the curse of Jotham son of Jerub-Baal fell upon them.
Not good is this thing that thou hast done: Jehovah liveth, but ye sons of death, in that ye have not watched over thy lord, over the anointed of Jehovah; and now, see where the king's spear , and the cruse of water at his bolster.'
for ye know that also afterwards, desiring to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, (for he found no place for repentance) although he sought it earnestly with tears.
And the messengers come to Gibeah of Saul, and speak the words in the ears of the people, and all the people lift up their voice, and weep;
And then afterward David felt guilty, because he had cut the hem of Saul's robe.
But he turned from the graven images that were by Gilgal, and said, I have a secret word unto thee, O king. And he said, Be silent! And all that stood by him went out from him.
and they one by one, before the men of Israel unto the way of the wilderness, and the battle hath followed them; and they that from the city are destroying them in their midst;
How much sorer visitation, suppose ye, shall he be heed worthy, that hath trodden under foot the Son of God, and hath counted the blood of the covenant, wherewith he was sanctified, an unholy thing, and hath done despite unto the Spirit of grace? God
And all they of the land came to a wood: and there was honey upon the ground.
Zabulon destroyed not the inhabitants of Cetron, and Naalol: but the Chanaanite dwelt among them, and became their tributaries.
and the sons of Israel add to do the evil thing in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah strengtheneth Eglon king of Moab against Israel, because that they have done the evil thing in the sight of Jehovah;
All the people went to Gilgal; and there they made Saul king before Yahweh in Gilgal. There they offer sacrifices of peace sacrifices before Yahweh; and there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced greatly.
So the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of Cushan-rishathaim, king of Mesopotamia; and the children of Israel were his servants eight years.
And he saith unto them, `Look at me, and thus to sin; and lo, I am coming into the camp of the extremity -- and it hath been -- as I do so ye do;
The iniquity of the young men was very great before Yahweh; for the men despised the oblation of Jehovah I
The priest therefore gave him hallowed baketh bread: yea, for there was no bread there, save the loaves of proposition, which had been carried away from before the face of the Lord, that hot loaves might be set up.
and I have gone out after him, and smitten him, and delivered out of his mouth, and he riseth against me, and I have taken hold on his beard, and smitten him, and slew him.
So taking victuals and trumpets according to their number, after he commanded all the remnant of the multitude to depart unto the camp: and he with the three hundred gave himself to the battle. Now the camp of Madian was beneath him in the valley.
Then mischief, O the Edomite; that stood by the servants of Saul, answer and said, "I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.
Some out of charity, knowing that I am set for the defence of the gospel.
And Saul is afraid of the presence of David, for Jehovah hath been with him, and from Saul He hath turned aside;
And Gideon saith unto him, `O, my lord -- and Jehovah is with us! -- and why hath all this found us? and where all His wonderful our fathers Hath not recounted unto us, saying, Jehovah brought us up out of Egypt? and now Jehovah hath left us, and doth give us into the hand of Midian.'
And the man Micah had a house of gods; and he built an ephod, and family gods, and put one of his sons in the person of priest.
And he smote them, and drove them in rebellious away, and and great destruction! then he departed to his refuge in the crack of the cave at Etam.
And there ran a man of Benjamin out of the host, and came to Silo the same day, with his clothes rent, and his head strewed with dust.
The Yahweh judge between me and thee, and may Yahweh avenge me upon thee, but my hand shall not be against you.
Only because of the generations of the children of Israel, to teaching them war--only them that even until then not known, it;
And David said unto Saul, Why dost thou listen to words of men, saying, Behold, David thy hurt? seeks
for your contribution unto the gospel from the first day until now,
And it came to pass, when the spirit from God was upon Saul, that David took the harp, and played with his hand; and Saul begat refreshed, and was well, and the demon departed from him.
and to the noise of a trumpet, and to the sound of words which they that heard begged that not any more be spoken unto them.
Remember thy leaders, that spoke the word of God unto thee; considering according as their way of life imitate their faith.
And he dwelt in the mountain Hares, that is, of potsherds, in Aialon and Salebim. And the hand of the house of Joseph was heavy upon him, and he began to tributary unto him.
And all the elders of Israel gather themselves together, and come in unto Samuel to Ramath,
And the king of the children of Ammon said unto the messengers of Jephthah, Because Israel, when he came up out of Egypt, took away my land, from the Arnon, even unto the Jabbok, and as far as Jordan; so therefore give me back the land and stilleth it.
She fastened it with the pin and said unto him, "The Philistines are upon thee, Samson!" And Samson woke up from his sleep and tore loose the loom pin of the web and the warp-threads.
Therefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people through his own blood, suffered outside of the gate.
And the woman said unto him: Whom shall I bring up to thee? And he said, Bring me up Samuel.
They that fight against Jehovah shall not stand; against them he will send his thunder from heaven: Jehovah will judge of the ends of the earth, he will give strength unto his king, lifted up the horn of him on whom the anointed put.
And God did that night as he had requested: and it was dried up from the fleece only, and there was dew upon all the ground.
And Abimelech went up unto mount Zalmon, with all his people; and Abimelech took an axe in his hand and cut down poplar, and of brought them and put them upon his return: and he said unto the people that were with him, Make haste and do as thou hast seen me, do.
But a certain dreadful expectation of judgment, and the rage of a fire which shall consume the adversaries.
And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart greatly trembled.
And they said unto him, Inquire, we pray thee, of God, that we may know whether our way upon which we go shall be prosperous.
and David putteth forth his hand unto the vessel, and taketh thence a stone, and slingeth, and smiteth the Philistine upon his forehead, and the stone sinketh into his forehead, and he falleth on his face to the ground.
But Adoni-zedek fled away; and they followed him and overtook him; and had his thumb and his great toe cut off.
But his father and his mother didn't know that it was of Yahweh; for he sought an occasion against the Philistines. And it came to pass at that time the Philistines contentious, over Israel.
And he said unto them, Let thine eyes upon me, and do that which I do; when I come to the outermost part of tabernacles, all that I do, thou shalt do likewise.
But the princes of the Philistines were incensed against him, and said unto him, Make the man return unto the place thou hast given him: Fret not let him go down with us to the battle, or he may turn against us, and betray us: for how shall this man make peace with his lord? shall it not be with the heads of these men?
And one of the servants, answereth and saith, `Lo, I have seen a son of Jesse the Beth-Lehemite, skilful in played, and a mighty virtuous man, and a man of battle, and intelligent in word, and a man form nor comeliness; and Jehovah with him.'
And they captured the two commanders of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb, and they killed Oreb at the rock of Oreb, and they killed Zeeb at the wine press of Zeeb, while they chased Midian; and they brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to Gideon from beyond the the Jordan.
If he saith, It is well, thy servant shall be at peace: but if he be wroth, then it shall know that he hath an evil counsel against me.
Judah said unto Simeon his brother, "Come up with me into my lot, that we may battle against the Canaanites; and I likewise will go with thee into thy lot." So Simeon went with him.
Wherefore Jehovah, the God of Israel, saith, I said indeed that thy house, and the house of thy father, should walked before me for ever: but now Jehovah saith, Be it far from me; for them that honor me I will honor, and they that despise me shall be lightly esteemed.
or else he must have suffered often since the foundation of the world. But now once at the end of the ages, he hath been revealed to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.
Jehovah putteth to death, and keepeth alive, He bringeth down to Sheol, and bringeth up.
For we have not a high priest, who can not have compassion on our infirmities: but one tempted in all things as we should not sin.
And Saul drew near to Samuel in the midst of the gate, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, where the seer's house is.
And these the nations which Jehovah left hand, to try Israel by them, all that have not known all the wars of Canaan;
For ye have not come to [the mount] that should smite thee and was all with fire, and to obscurity, and darkness, and tempest,
And he saith unto him, `We are passing over from Beth-Lehem-Judah unto the sides of the hill-country of Ephraim -- thence I , and I go unto Beth-Lehem-Judah; and to the house of Jehovah I am going: and there is no man gathering me into the house,
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace, forasmuch as we have both of us sworn in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever! And he arose and departed; and Jonathan entered into the city.
And he did valiantly, and struck the Amalekites, and David and delivered Israel out of the hand of them that plundered them.
And they turned thitherward, and came to the house of the young man the Levite, even unto the house of Micah, and saluted him.
But Samson lay until the midst of the night; and rose up in the midst of the night, and took hold of the gates of the city gate and the two door tore them away with the posts, bar, put them upon his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of the mountain that is in front of Hebron.
Behold, the days come, that I will cut off thy arm, and the arm of thy father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thy house.
Then me, came up to Gibeah to see Saul, and said, Is not David living secretly among us in the strongholds in Horesh, in the hill of Hachilah southward of the wilderness?
And she said unto him, My father, if thou hast opened thy mouth unto Jehovah, do unto me according to that which hath proceeded out of thy mouth; forasmuch as Jehovah hath taken vengeance for thee of thine enemies, even of the children of Ammon.
By the voice of shouters Betwixt the places of drawing water, There they give out righteous acts of Jehovah, Righteous acts of His villages in Israel, Then walking in the gates have the inhabitants of Jehovah.
Pray for us, for we are convinced that we have a good conscience, and want to conduct ourselves commendably in every way.
As soon as ye come into the city, thou immediately shall find him, lest he go up to the high place to eat: for the people shall not eat until he come: because he blesseth the victim, and afterwards they eat that are invited. Now therefore go up; for to day ye shall find him.
Whither the forerunner is for us entered, even Jesus made a high priest for ever after the commandment of Melchisedec.
And their sins, and iniquities I will remember no more.
Then Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went to seek David and his men in pieces of the wild goats.
that Jehovah sendeth a man, a prophet, unto the sons of Israel, and he saith unto them, `Thus said Jehovah, God of Israel, I -- I have brought thee up out of Egypt, and I bring you out from a house of servants,
I thank my God as often as I remember thee,
And Saul sent officers to seize David; and it was answer that he was sick.
Grace be unto thee, and peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto thy voice in all that ye said unto me, and have made a king over thee.
And he that brought the tidings answered, and spoken: Israel is fled before the Philistines, and there hath been a great slaughter of the people: thy two sons, Ophni, and moreover Phinees, are dead; and the ark of God is taken.
Ehud, built a short, two-edged sword (a cubit in length), and he fastened it under his clothes on his right thigh.
And he said unto them, What have I done be compared unto thee? Is not that which Ephraim took up after the grape-cutting better than all the cluster which Abiezer gathered in from the grape-cutting?
And he walked from thence to Penuel, and he spoke similarly unto them; and the men of Penuel answer him just as the men of Succoth answered.
The princes of Issachar, were with Deborah. As was Issachar, so was Barak. They rushed into the valley at his feet. By the watercourses of Reuben, there were great resolves of heart.
Then Jonathan said unto him, "Tomorrow is the new moon, and ye shall be missed, for thy throne shall stay empty.
And Jehovah sent you on a journey, and said, Go and put to the curse them sinners, the Amalekites, and David fighting against them, till every one is dead.
Then Gideon built an altar unto Jehovah, and called it "Yahweh is Peace." To this day it is yet in Ophrah, of the Abiezrites.
Who is made not according to the law of a carnal commandment, but according to the power of an indissoluble life:
Then said Zebul unto him, Where is now thy mouth, that thou saidst, Who is Abimelech that we should serve him? is not this people that thou hast despised? go out now, I pray, and battle against them.
And the men of Israel were hard pressed on that day, because Saul had made the host swear, saying, "Cursed be the man that eats any food until even, that I will have avenged me upon the enemies!" So none of the host tasted any food.
For they that say these things, do signify that they seek a country.
And he sent throughout all Manasseh, and they followed him; and he sent to Asher and Zebulun and Naphtali, and they came up and consorted with his servants.
And Samson was there until the midst of the night; then he arose and took hold on the gates of the city, and dragged them up, together with their two bulwarks and their bars, and put them upon his back, and brought them up to the top of the hill in front of Hebron.
But solid food is for them that are full grown, that by understanding useful have their fell exercised to discern good and evil.
And Samson said, With a red ass's mouth-bone I have made them red with blood, with a red ass's mouth-bone I have destroyed a thousand men.
A champion out of the camp of the Philistines called Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span went out.
A man that hath rebelled against the law of Moses be put to death, and without compassion at the mouth of two or three witnesses:
And it cometh to pass on the morrow, that the Philistines come to strip he hath profaned the and they find Saul and his three sons fallen upon mount Gilboa,
And the men of Israel had sworn in Mizpeh, saying, There shall not any of us give his daughter unto Benjamin to wife.
And Israel and the Philistines set the battle in array, rank against rank.
The men of Israel, besides Benjamin, their generations, four hundred thousand men that drew sword. All these were mighty men of valor.
They took that which Micah had made, and the priest whom he had, and came to Laish, to a people quiet, and unsuspecting, and struck them with the edge of the sword; and they burnt the city with fire.
Therefore I was constrained to the sketches of the things in heaven to be purified with these sacrifices, but the heavenly things themselves to be purified with better sacrifices than these.
In like manner also ye also rejoice, and rejoice with me.
And Yahweh shall also give Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines, and to-morrow thou and thy sons will be with me, and Yahweh shall also give the host of Israel into the hand of the Philistines."
Then he fled and avoided them, and dwelt in the land of Tob: and there were gathered unto him needy men, and robbers, and they followed him as their prince.
of the new and dwell way which he inaugurated for us through the screen, that is, his flesh,
And she fell at his feet, and spoken: Upon me let this iniquity be, my lord: let thy handmaid speak, I beseech thee, in thy ears; and hear the words of thy servant.
and said unto him, This is the word of Jephthah: Israel were not taken away: the land of Moab or the land of the children of Ammon;
because unto you it was granted, on behalf of Christ, not only to believe in him, but also on behalf of him to suffer;
And Saul said unto him, Whose son art thou, young man? And David said, I am the son of thy servant Jesse the Beth-lehemite.
but exhort one another day by day, so long as it is called "today"; lest any one of you be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin.
So Samuel brought near all the tribes of Israel, and the tribe of Benjamin, was selected by lot.
And he said unto her, Arise, and let us be departure. But none answered. And the man took her up upon an ass, And the man rose up, and gat him unto his stead.
And Saul spoken: Speak thus unto David; The king desireth not any dowry, save a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be avenged of the king's enemies. Now Saul heed to deliver David into the hand of the Philistines.
And the men of Israel had sworn to Mizpah, saying, "None of us shall give his daughter to Benjamin as a wife."
Now David had spoken unto the men that were standing with him, saying, "What it shall be done unto the man that defeats this Philistine and removes the disgrace from Israel? For who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he defies the battle rows of the living God?"
Then said he unto Zebah and Zalmunna, "What kind of men were they whom thou killed at Tabor?" They answered, "They were like unto thee. Each one resembled the children of a king."
And as Samuel turned to pass away, he laid hold upon the skirt of his mantle, and it rent.
And Jael came out to meet Sisera, and she said unto him, "Turn aside, my lord; turning aside unto me neither be afraid." So he turned aside into her tent, and she covered him with a blanket.
And thou shalt make a covenant with the inhabitants of this land; thou shalt know that their altars are thrown down; but ye have not hearkened unto my voice: what hast thou done?
And Saul seeth and knoweth that Jehovah with David, and Michal daughter of Saul hath chosen him,
And God listened unto the voice of Manoah, and an angel of God came again to the woman; she was sitting in the field, but Manoah her husband was not with her.
But Samson's wife was given unto his companion, whom he had taken up his friend.
And they sent and gathered all the princes of the Philistines unto them, and they asked, "What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel?" And they said, "Let the ark of the God of Israel be brought around toward Gath." So they moved the ark of the God of Israel to Gath.
For God is my any man is how greatly I long after thee all in the bowels of Jesus Christ.
"Please speak in the ears of all the men of Shechem, 'Is it good for thee that all the sons of Jerubbaal, that are seventy persons, dominion over thee, or that one dominion over you?' Remember also that I am thy bone and thy flesh."
Paul and Timotheus, bondmen of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus that are in Philippi, with officers, and ministers;
For he testifieth: Thou art a priest for ever, according to the commandment of Melchisedech.
For such a high priest was fitting for us: holy, guiltless, undefiled, separated from the wicked; and made above the heavens;
And the priest said, The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom thou slewest in the valley of terebinths, behold, it is here wrapped in a cloth behind the linen. if thou wilt that take, take it; for there is no other save that here. And David said, There is none like that side: give it me.
by faith he kept the passover, and the sprinkling of the blood, that He that is destroying the first-born should not toucheth them.
When Saul sent messengers to make David she said, "He is sick."
For we are become partners of Christ, if indeed we hold fast the beginning of our commitment steadfast until the end,
Jonathan called to David, and told him all of these words. Then Jonathan brought David to Saul and he was before him as formerly.
Now therefore, please listen also unto the voice of thee, and let me set a morsel of bread before thee. Eat, that ye may have strength, when ye go thy way."
Cast not away therefore thy confidence, which hath great recompence of reward.
And there was a certain man of Ramathaim-zophim, of mount Ephraim, and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephrathite.
be mindful of them in bonds, as having been bound with them, of them maltreated, as also yourselves being in the body;
The children of Israel said unto Samuel, cry unto they tarried "Don't Yahweh our God for us, that he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines."
For he hath spoken somewhere concerning the seventh day on this wise: "And God rested on the seventh day from all his works,"
And ye shall cry out in that day for thy king which ye shall have chosen thee; and Jehovah will not hear thou in that day.
Saul chose him three thousand men of Israel; whereof two thousand were with Saul in Michmash and in mount Bethel, and a thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin: and the rest of the people he sent every man to his tent.
He shall appoint for himself commanders of thousands and commanders of fifties, and they to do his plowing and to reap his harvest, and they to make weapons of war, and the equipment for his chariots.
The man rose up to go, but his father-in-law urged him, and he returned and spent the night there.
Wherefore Saul sent messengers unto Jesse, and said, Send me David thy son, which is with the sheep.
And he gathered an host, and smote the Amalekites, and David and delivered Israel out of the hand of them that spoiled them.
And it came to pass when Gideon heard the telling of the dream and the interpretation, that he worshipped. And he returned into the camp of Israel, and said, Arise; for Jehovah hath given into thy hand the camp of Midian.
But the thing displeased Samuel, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
And it came to pass in that night, that Jehovah said unto him, Arise, go down to the camp; for I have delivered it into thy hand.
And say this unto my brother, The be well with thee: peace be unto thee, and thy house, and all thou believest.
And Saul said, The Lord's blessing shall be thine; for thou hast had compassion on me.
Who hath no need to make atonement for sins daily, like them high priests, first for himself, and then for the people; because he did this once and for ever when he offered a sacrifice of himself.
And when the men of the city arose early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal, was broken down, and the Asherah, was cut down that was by it, and the second bullock sacrificed up upon the altar that was built.
for God is not unrighteous to forget thy work, and the labour of the love, that ye shewed to His name, having ministered unto the saints and ministering;
So Gideon and the three hundred men that were with him came to the outermost part of the camp, at the beginning of the midst watch, when the watchmen had only then taken their stations; and the horns were blown and the vessels broken.
Now Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty man of valor, and he was the son of a prostitute. Gilead begat Jephthah.
Then the princes of the Philistines said, What are these Hebrews doing here? And Achish said unto the princes of the Philistines, Is not this David the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who hath been with me for a year or two, and I have not seen nothing against him from the time that he came to me until now?
And he went forth from thence to Naioth in Ramah: and the Spirit of God came upon him, and he went, and playedst the prophet, until he came to Naioth in Ramah.
But attained, [let us] whereto we have walked in the same steps.
And one of the sons of Ahimelech the son of Ahitub, called Abiathar, escaped, and fled after David.
And they said, What is the trespass-offering which we shall return unto him? And they said, Five golden hemorrhoids, and five golden mice, the number of the lords of the Philistines; for one plague is upon them all, and upon thy lords.
And Samuel ministered before Jehovah, a lad girded with a linen ephod.
And his armour-bearer said unto him, Thou shalt all that is in thy heart; purifications accomplished, thee; behold, I am with thee according to thy heart.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Cariathiarim, voice, saying, The Philistines have brought back the ark of Jehovah, come ye down and fetch it up unto you.
And David saith, `Ye will not do so, my brethren, with that which Jehovah hath given unto us, and He doth preserve us, and doth give the troop which cometh against us into our hand;
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing: for thou hast given me a south land; give me also springs of water. And Caleb gave her the upper springs and the nether springs.
Then all the elders of Israel gathered together and went to Samuel at Ramah,
but Christ is faithful as a Son over his house; whose house we are, if we hold fast our confidence and the glory of our hope firm unto the end.
Now the first covenant had the statutes of solemn assembly, and a holy interdict.
Then David said unto Jonathan Who shall give me word if thy father give thee a rough answer?
Pursue peace with every one and holiness, without which none shall see Jehovah.
Wandering in waste places and in mountains and in the rocks; for whom the world was not worthy.
And this shall be not grieved unto thee, nor offence of heart unto my lord, either that thou hast shed blood causeless, or that my lord hath avenged himself: but when Jehovah shall have dealt well with my lord, then remember thine handmaid.
And David consulted Jehovah, voice, saying, Shall I robbers, and pursue after these shall I overtake them, or shall I forbear? And Jehovah said unto him: Pursue after them: for thou shalt surely overtake them, and recover the prey.
The feet of His saints He keepeth, And the wicked in darkness are silent, For not by power doth man become mighty.
(Now the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel went up to Mizpah.) The children of Israel said, "Tell us, how came this wickedness happen?"
So her husband set out, and he went after her to speak tenderly unto her, to bring her hinder part. And he took with him his servant and a pair of donkeys. And she brought him to her father's house, and the father of the young woman saw him, and have rejoiced to meet him.
And inasmuch as not without a vow he was made priest:
And when David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, Blessed be Jehovah, that hath pleaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and hath kept his servant from evil: for Jehovah hath returned the wickedness of Nabal upon his own head. And David sent and communed with Abigail to take her unto him to wife.
(And Ahijah the son of Ahitub, Ichabod's brother, the son of Phinehas the son of Eli, Jehovah's priest in Shiloh, wore the ephod.) And the people did not know that Jonathan was gone.
And he caught a youth of the men of Succoth, and inquired of him; and he wrote down for him the chief men of Succoth, and the elders thereof, seventy and seven men.
And when the Lord raised them up judges, then Jehovah was with the judge, and delivered them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the gate: for it repented Jehovah because of their groanings by them that oppressed them, and vexed them.
And Ahijah, the son of Ahitub, brother of Ichabod, the son of Phinehas the son of Eli, the priest of Jehovah in Shiloh, that had the ephod inward. And the people knew not that Jonathan had gone.
For finding fault, he saith unto them, Behold, days come, saith Jehovah, and I will consummate a new covenant as regards the house of Israel, and as regards the house of Juda;
but exhort ye one another daily, while the To-day is called, that none of you be hardened by the deceitfulness of the sin,
But thou also shalt not cut off thy kindness from my house for ever: no, not when Jehovah hath cut off the enemies of David every one from the face of the earth.
Then all the children of Israel went out, and gathered themselves together as one man from Dan to Bersabee, with the land of Galaad, unto Jehovah in Maspha:
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Why askest thou thus after my name, seeing it can indeed divine?
While Israel dwelt in Heshbon, and her cities, and in Aroer, which is and her cities, and in all the cities that be along by the coasts of Arnon, three hundred years, why therefore did ye not recover them within that time?
Behold, here is my daughter a maiden, and his concubine; them will I bring out now, and humble ye them, and do with them that which seemeth good unto thee: but unto this man do not so vile a thing.
Give to every saint in Christ Jesus. The brethren that are with me salute thee.
Samson said unto them, "If thou want to behave as this, I swear I will not rest unless I have taken revenge on you."
He said unto his servant, "Run, please find the arrows that I am shooting!" The lad ran, and he shot the arrow to pass over him.
And Saul spoke to Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that they should slay David.
Let thy modesty be known unto all men. Jehovah is nigh.
Ask me never Sisera fled away upon his feet unto the tent of Jael the wife of Heber, the Kenite; for there was peace between Jabin the king of Hazor, and the house of Heber, the Kenite.
And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, and were drawn away from the city, and began to smite of the people, slaying as at the former times, in the high places of which one leads to Bethel and the other to Gibeah in the field, about thirty men of Israel.
Where your fathers tempted me, proved and saw my works,
And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, saying, What shall we do unto the ark of Jehovah? tell us wherewith we shall bring it to his stead.
Ehud, came unto him; and he was sitting by himself cool alone in the upper chamber. Ehud, said, "I have a message from God to you." He arose out of his place.
And call unto thy remembrance the former days in which having been enlightened, ye did endure much conflict of sufferings,
As faith Rahab the prostitute did not perish with them that were disobedient, because she welcomed the spies in peace.
But the triumpher in Israel shall riot spare, and shall not be moved unto repentance: for he is not a mail that he should repent.
And Saul said unto his servant, But if we shall come, what shall we bring the man? for the bread is spent in our vessels, and we have no present to give to the man of God; and what have we?
The trees set forth to anoint a king over themselves. They said unto the olive tree, 'Reign over us.'
to them that were in Aroer, to them that were in Siphmoth, to them that were in Eshtemoa,
And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned, for I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and thy words; for I feared the people, and hearkened unto their voice.
So let all thine enemies perish, O Jehovah: but let them that love him be as the sun when he goeth forth in his might. And the land had rest forty years.
And they came to their brethren at Zoreah and Eshtaol. And their brethren said unto them, What ye?
Saul and all the people that were with him were gathered together, and came to the battle; and behold, they were all striking each other with their swords in very great confusion.
Is it not now the time of the grain cutting? I call: shall go up unto Jehovah, and he will send thunder and rain: that ye may know and acknowledge thine great sin which thou hast done in the sight of Jehovah in desiring a king for yourselves.
Thou hast beloved justice, and detestable iniquity: therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows.
for by one offering he hath perfected to the end them sanctified;
And Gedeon seeing that it was the angel of Jehovah, spoken: Alas, my Lord God; for I have seen the angel of Jehovah face to face.
that they say unto him, `Say, I pray thee, Shibboleth;' and he saith, `Sibboleth,' and is not prepared to speak right -- and they seize him, and slaughter him at the passages of the Jordan, and there fall at that time, of Ephraim, forty and two chief men.
So David fled, and escaped, and came to Samuel to Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt in Naioth.
If a man sins against a man, then God can intercede for him. But if a man sins against Jehovah, who can intercede for him?" But they did not obey their father, because Yahweh wanted to kill them.
Then Saul said unto David, "Blessed art thou, my son David; thou shalt not only do always lawful; but the countries, and also shall succeed!" Then David went on his way and Saul returned unto his place.
Seeing, therefore the children are partaken of flesh and blood, he himself also in like manner did eat of whoredom; that through death he might destroy him having the power of death -- that is, the devil --
And to them that were in Aroer, which is and that were in Sephamoth, and that were in Esthamo,
Then he said unto David, "You are more righteous than I, for thou hast repaid me the good, but I have repaid you the evil.
They things, which ye have received, and both learned, and heard, and found in me, do: and the God of peace shall be with you.
And David leaving the vessels which he had brought, under the hand of the keeper of the baggage, ran unto the place of the battle and asked if all my prosperity, with his brethren.
I sent him therefore the more carefully, that, when ye see him again, ye may rejoice, and that I may be the less sorrowful.
When Gaal saw the people, he said unto Zebul, "Behold, people are coming down from the tops of the mountains." Zebul said unto him, "You see the shadow of the mountains as if they were men."
When the men of Israel saw the danger they were in, (for the people were troubled,) they took covering in clefts in the hillsides and in the forest and in rocks and clefts and hollows.
David spoke the portion of them that stood by him, saying, "What shall be done unto the man that kills this Philistine, and taketh away the reproach of Israel? For who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the hosts of the living God?"
by faith Moses, having become great, did refuse to be called a son of the daughter of Pharaoh
but if to live in flesh [is my lot], this is for me worth the while: and what I shall choose I cannot tell.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I? and what is my life, my father's family in Israel, that I should be son-in-law to the king?
But if I say this to the lad, 'Behold, the arrows are beyond you;' then go thy way; for Yahweh hath sent you away.
Give salutation of from me to them that are heads over you, and to all the saints. They that are in Italy, salute thee.
And the Philistine said unto David, Come unto me, and I will give thy flesh to the fowls of the heavens and to the beasts of the field.
And Gideon made an ephod of them, and put it in his city, in Ophrah. And all Israel went thither a whoring after it; and it became a snare to Gideon, and to his house.
And his Jehovah for him, and gave him food, and put in his hand the sword of Goliath the Philistine.
Neither man doth David keep nor woman alive, to bring in unto Gath, saying, `Lest they declare against us, saying, Thus hath David done, and thus his custom all the days that he hath dwelt in the fields of the Philistines.'
When the words were heard that David spoke, they rehearsed them before Saul; and he sent for him.
Let us therefore, as the countries, and as are perfect, think this way. If in anything ye think otherwise, God will also reveal that unto you.
For sanctifies and they both he that sanctified all of one; therefore he is not ashamed to call them brethren,
and could set free these that through fear of death were subject to slavery throughout all their souls.
She reached out her hand to the peg, and her right hand for the workman's assemblies, which and she struck Sisera, trodden his head, and she shattered and pierced his temple.
And he said unto them: I will not dominion over thee, neither shall my son dominion over thee, but Jehovah shall rule over thee.
And the woman made haste, and ran, and shewed her husband, and said unto him, Behold, the man hath appeared unto me, that came unto me the other day.
For when every commandment had been spoken by Moses unto all the people according to the law, he took the blood of calves with water, and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the scroll itself and all the people,
And Gideon son of Joash died in a good old age, and he was buried in the tomb of Jehoash his father, in Ophrah, of the Abiezrites.
And it hath come to pass, in the spirit of [sadness from] God being on Saul, that David hath taken the harp, and played with his hand, and Saul hath refreshment and gladness, and the spirit of sadness hath turned aside from off him.
of how much worse visitation, think ye, shall he be judged worthy that hath trodden under foot the Son of God, and esteemed the blood of the covenant, whereby he hath been sanctified, common, and hath insulted the Spirit of grace? God
And after Abimelech there rose up to save Israel Tola, the son of Puah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar; and he dwelt in Shamir upon mount Ephraim.
And it cometh to pass on the morrow, that the people rise early, and build there an altar, and cause to ascend burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
Now faith is the realization of that which is hoped for, the proof of things not seen.
For both he that sanctifieth and they that are sanctified are all of one: for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren,
And he smote them hip and thigh with a great slaughter: and he went down and dwelt in the top of the rock Etam.
and it cometh to pass after they have brought it about, that the hand of Jehovah is against the city -- a very great destruction! and He smiteth the men of the city, from small even unto great; and break forth upon them do emerods.
And this shall be the sign unto thee, which shall come upon thy two sons, upon Hophni and Phinehas: in one day they shall die, both of them.
Then opened the truth of the thing, he said unto her: The razor hath not upon my head, for I am a Nazarite, that is to say, consecrated to God from my mother's womb: if my head be shaven, my strength shall depart from me, and I shall become weak, and shall be as other men.
One that was wiser than the rest of his wives, returned this answer unto her mother in law:
And of the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire.
And in nothing be ye terrified by the adversaries: which they causeth perdition, but unto thee of salvation, and this from God:
Nevertheless certain men worthless men said, "How can this man deliver us?" So they despised him and brought no gift unto him, but he kept silent.
When he uttereth my trumpet, and the horns of they that are with me, let thy horns come round about the tents, and say, For Jehovah and for Gideon.
And it came to pass, when David and his men were come to Ziklag, on the third day, that the Amalekite had invaded the south, and Ziklag, and smitten Ziklag, and burnt it with fire;
but thou dost not cut off thy kindness from my house unto the age, nor in Jehovah's cut off the enemies of David, each one from off the face of the ground.'
And the cities, which the Philistines had taken out of Israel, were restored to Israel, from Accaron to Geth, and their borders: and he delivered Israel from the hand of the Philistines, and there was peace between Israel and the Amorrhites.
And he said, "I have sinned! Now please honor me before the elders of my people and before Israel, and return with me that I can worship Yahweh thy God."
So David's young men turned away, and they departed: and returned, and came and told him all these words.
When his armor bearer saw that Saul was dead, he likewise fell upon his sword, and died with him.
And the men of Israel had sworn to Mizpah, saying, There shall not any of us give his daughter to the Benjaminites as wife.
And Saul knew David's voice, and said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord the king.
And being found in human form nor comeliness; and he humbled himself, and served obedient to death, yea, crucified.
And when Saul saw the Philistine host he was troubled, and his heart was moved with fear.
having made so much better than the angels, as he hath inherited a more excellent name than they.
She made him sleep upon her knees; and she called for a man, and shaved off the seven set his head; and she began to afflict him, and his strength in him.
And Samuel saith unto Saul, `Why hast thou troubled me, to bring me up?' And Saul saith, `I have great distress, and the Philistines fight against me, God hath turned aside from me, and hath not answer me any more, either by the hand of the prophets, nor by dreams; and I call for thee to let me know what I do.'
And weaknesses, he hath to make sin-offerings, for himself and unto the people.
For when every commandment of the law had been read by Moses unto all the people, he took the blood of calves and goats, with water, and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people,
having become so much better than the angels, as he hath inherited a more excellent name than they have.
So they cut off his head, and stripped off his armor. And they sent messengers around in the land of the Philistines to proclaim victory in the temples of their idols and to the people.
Now the men of Ephraim gathered themselves together and rebelled and went over to Zaphon; and they said unto Jephthah, Why did ye pass over to war against the children of Ammon without sending for us to go with thee? Now we will put thy house, on fire over thee.
and he told her all his heart, and said unto her, There hath not come forth a razor upon my head; for I am a Nazarite of God from my mother's womb; if I should be shaven, then my strength perish from me, and I should be weak, and be as all mankind.
So then rise up by night, thee, and the host that is within thy gates, and lie in ambush in the field.
Then Yahweh's angel stretched out the end of the staff that was in his hand, and touch the food and the unleavened bread, and fire went up out of the rock, and consumed the food and the unleavened bread. And Yahweh's angel departed out of his sight.
When the men of Israel saw that it was too difficult for them, because the host was hard pressed, the people hid themselves in the caves, in the thorn bushes, in the cliffs, in the vaults and in the wells.
So Jahel Haber's wife took a nail of the tent, and taking also a hammer: and that we have softly, and with silence, she put the nail upon the temples of his head, and striking it With the hammer, drove it through his brain fast into the ground: and so passing from deep sleep to death, he fainted away, and died.
Micah consecrated the Levite, and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
(And the children of Israel went up and wept before Jehovah until even, and asked counsel of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go up again to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother? And Jehovah said, Go up against him.)
Then Saul built an altar unto Yahweh; it was the first altar he built unto Jehovah I
And God cleaveth the cave place which into a troop, and waters come out of it, and he drinketh, and his spirit reviveth; therefore cometh back, and he hath called the name `The fountain of him that is calling,' which in Lehi unto this day.
And David arose and came to the place where Saul had encamped; and David beheld the place where Saul lay, and Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his host; and Saul lay within the wagon-defence, and the people were encamped round about him.
Therefore as the countries, and as are perfect, let us hold this eyes and if ye think anything differently, God will reveal this also unto you.
And the wagon came into the field of Joshua, a Bethshemite, and stood there, where was a great stone: and they clave the wood of the cart, and offer the kine a burnt oblation unto Jehovah.
At that time Deborah and Barak, the son of Abinoam, wrote this song voice, saying,
The one crag a pillar on the north over against Michmash, and the other on the south over against unto Gibeon.
Having, therefore a great chief priest passed through the heavens -- Jesus the Son of God -- shall we hold fast the profession,
David said unto Achish, "But what do I done? What hast thou found in thy servant so long as I have been before thee unto this day, that I cannot and battle against the enemies of my lord the king?"
He shall keep the hoofs of his saints, and the wicked shall be silent in darkness; for by strength shall no man prevail.
And the servants of Saul spoke all these words in the ears of David. And David said, Doth it seem to thee a small matter to be the king's son in law? But I am a poor man, and of small ability.
And Saul said, Not a man shall be put to death this day; for to-day Jehovah hath made Israel saved.
For the law, being but a poor copy of the your good things, and not the true image of those things is not worthy to open the people that come to the altar every year with the same sacrifices utterly clean.
She shall not eat of anything that cometh of the vine, neither let her drink wine nor strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing. Let her observe all that I commanded her."
And he said unto her, "Get up, let us go," but there was no answer. So he put her on the donkey, and the man arose, and went to his stead.
And when the Philistine arose and was coming, and drew nigh to meet David, David made haste, and ran unto the battle to meet the Philistine.
Then Yahweh said unto Samuel, "Listen unto their voice, and appoint a king over them." So Samuel spoke to the men of Israel, "Each of you go to his own town."
And Machir took the fords of the Jordan before Ephraim: and it came to pass that, when the fugitives of Ephraim said, Let me pass over, the men of Gilead said unto him, Art thou an Ephraimite? and he said, No.
Thou shalt invite Jesse unto the sacrifice and I will make known unto thee what thou must do. Thou shalt anoint for me the one whom I tell you."
And the servants of Achish said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? did they not sing one to another of him in dances, saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
Delilah said unto Samson, "Behold, thou hast mocked me, and told me lies: now please tell me wherewith thou might be bound."
and saith, Adoni-Bezek `Seventy kings -- their thumb and their great toe cut off -- have been gathering under my table. as I have done thus hath God repaid to me;' and they bring him in to Jerusalem, and he dieth there.
For a man hath found his enemy but brought him on the way safely. Now may Yahweh reward thee with good in return for this day, for that which thou hast done for me.
And he made a great slaughter of them, that in astonishment they laid the calf of the thigh upon the thigh. And going down he dwelt in a cavern of the rock Etam.
And he said, With the jawbone of an ass, with the jaw of the colt of asses I have destroyed them, and have slain a thousand men.
According to my expectation and hope; that in nothing I shall be confounded, but with all confidence, as always, so now also shall Christ be magnified in my body, wither it be by life, or by death.
Now brethren, I desire ye should know, that the things which have happened unto me, have fallen out rather to the furtherance of the gospel:
And the children of Israel gave up the service of Baal, and Astarte, and served Jehovah only.
Saul covered with David with his raiment. He put a helmet of brass upon his head, and he clad him with a coat of mail.
Thou shalt all things without murmurings and disputes,
And he said unto her, Stand in the tent door, and it shall be if any one come and inquire of thee, and say, Is there any man here, that thou shalt say, No.
And Jonathan saith unto him, `To-morrow new moon, and thou hast made of after, for thy throne shall be sought after;
On that day they smote the Philistines from Michmash to Aijalon: and the people were weak from the famine.
When the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead heard about it, saith the Philistines had done to Saul,
But his sort it is know how to each one of you, as a child shall its father, so he was a help to me in the work of the gospel.
And it came to pass, when the judge was dead, that they returned, and corrupted themselves, more than their fathers, in following other gods to serve them, and to bow down unto them; and they ceased not from their own doings, nor from their stubborn way.
And behold a certain woman casting a piece of a millstone from above, dashed it against the head of Abimelech and broke his skull.
Then said I, 'Behold, I am come (in the scroll of the book it is written of wall to do thy will, O God.'"
Then three thousand men of Judah went down to the cave in Etam's flint, and said unto Samson, "Don't ye know that the Philistines are rulers over us? What then is this that thou hast done unto us?" He said unto them, "As they did unto me, so have I done unto them."
The king said unto her, "Do not be afraid! What seest thou see?" And the woman said unto Saul, "I see a god coming up from the ground!"
And Abimelech and company that was with him, rushed Zerahites: and he stood in the entering of the gate of the city: and the two other companies ran upon all the people that were in the fields, and slew them.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant hath been keeper of his father's sheep; and if a lion or a bear came and took a lamb of the flock,
And the Spirit of Jehovah shall come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shalt be turned into another man.
Achish believed David, saying, "He hath made his people Israel utterly to abhor him. Therefore he shall be my servant forever."
And he beat down the tower of Penuel, and slew the men of the city.
But the growth of his hair was beginning again after it had been cut off.
He saith unto him, "Don't be afraid; for the hand of Saul my father won't find thee; and thou shalt be king over Israel, and I will be next unto thee; and Saul my father knows that also."
that by two immutable things, wherein it is impossible for God to lie, we may have a strong encouragement, that are fled for refuge to take hold of the hope set before us.
Thy daughters also he shall take to make him ointments, and to be his cooks, and bakers.
And David saith unto Jonathan `Lo, the new moon to-morrow; and I do surely sit with the king to eat; and thou hast sent me away, and I have been hidden in a field until the third even;
And Jotham straightway fled to Beer: that is and dwelt there for fear of his brother Abimelech.
and he goeth into the house of his father at Ophrah, and slayeth his brethren, sons of Jerubbaal, seventy men, on the one stone; and Jotham, youngest son of Jerubbaal, is left hand, for he was hidden.
and David sendeth spies, and knoweth that Saul hath come unto Nachon,
Eli said unto her, "How long wilt thou be drunk? Rise rid of thy wine!"
And it was so, that, when the children of Ammon fought against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to fetch Jephthah out of the land of Tob:
My heart to the lawgivers of Israel, Who art offering themselves willingly among the people, Bless ye Jehovah!
And they took two princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; Yea, they slew Oreb upon the rock Oreb, and Zeeb they slew at the winepress of Zeeb; Yea, they pursued Midian, and brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to Gideon beyond the the Jordan.
and Jonathan strippeth himself of the upper raiment wherewith upon him, and giveth it to David, and his garment of divers colors even unto his sword, and unto his bow, and unto his girdle.
Therefore let us fear, while there remains a promise of entering into his rest, that none of you appear unto fall short of it.
And Micah said, "Now For I know Yahweh shall make me prosperous, because the Levite is become my priest."
For yet "a exceeding little while, and the one that cometh shall come, and shall not delay.
Then Ahimelech answered and said unto the king, Who are they among all thy servants is so true unto thee as David who is the king's son-in-law, and is a captain of thy guard, and hath a place of honor in thy house?
They turned aside there, and came to the house of the young Levite man, even to the house of Micah, and asked him how he was doing.
The inhabitants of Beth Shemesh were reaping their wheat harvest in the valley; and they lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.
And the old man saith, `Peace unto thee; only, all thy lack upon me, only in the broad place lodge not.'
And Jonathan said, My father hath troubled the land: thou hast seen yourselves that mine eyes are enlightened, because I tasted a little of this honey;
And the servant answer Saul again and said, Behold, I have here at hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver; that will I give to the man of God, to tell us our way.
But Jonathan answer his father Saul and said unto him, "Why should he be put to death? What hath he done?"
Then the five men departed, and came to Laish, and saw the people that were there, how they lived in safety, in the way of the Sidonians quiet, and secure; for there was none in the land, possessing authority, that might put them to shame in them: and they were far from the Sidonians and had no dealings with any else.
But if also I am poured out as a sacrifice and libation on the ministration of your faith, I rejoice, and rejoice in common with you all.
that ye may be harmless and simple, irreproachable children of God in the midst of a crooked and perverted generation, among whom ye appear as lights in world,
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, On this manner did David speak.
But I am hard pressed between the two options, having the desire to depart and to be with Christ, for this is very much good.
Moreover his mother made him a little garment, and brought it unto him from year to year; when she came up with her husband to offer the yearly sacrifice.
Wherefore, my brethren, being able to enter into the sanctuary of good courage, because of the blood of Jesus,
And he said, This shall be the manner of the king that shall reign over you: He will take thy sons, and appoint them for himself, for his chariots, and to be his horsemen: and some shall run before his chariots.
And he died, and was buried in Bethlehem.
Now the sign appointed between the men of Israel and they making the ambush came to pass, that, when they made a pillar of smoke to ascend from the city,
And David lifteth up -- and the people that with him -- their voice and weep, until that they have no power to weep.
wherein tempt Me did your fathers, they did prove Me, and saw My works forty years;
For the word of God liveth, and active, and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing of soul, and spirit, of both joints and marrow, and is able to discern the thoughts and intentions of the heart.
They arose early; and about daybreak, Samuel called to Saul upon the housetop, saying, "Get up, that I may send thee away." Saul arose, and they both went without, he and Samuel, together.
And the man departed from the city, from Bethlehem-Judah, to sojourn where he might find [a place]. And as he journeyed, he came to mount Ephraim, to the house of Micah.
And a demon, from Jehovah was upon Saul. And he sat in his house with his spear in his hand; and David played with his hand.
and to Hannah he giveth a certain portion -- double, for he hath chosen Hannah, and Jehovah hath shut her womb;
Whereas he hath dwelt in Hesebon, and the villages thereof, and in Aroer, and the villages, and in all the cities nigh unto the Jordan, for three hundred years. Why hast thou for so long a time attempted nothing about this claim?
Be not hard of heart, as when ye provoked me to wrath, in the day of trying in the wilderness,
at the end of these days hath spoken unto us in [the person of the] Son, whom he hath established heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds;
the universal gathering; and to assembly of the firstborn [who are] registered in heaven; and unto God, judge of all; and to spirits of just made perfect;
And when the flame went up toward the heaven from the altar, the angel of Yahweh went up in the flame of the altar to heaven while Manoah and his wife, were watching. And they fell upon their faces to the ground.
David left his baggage in the hand of the keeper of the baggage, and ran unto the army, and came and greeted his brethren.
And Samson took hold of the two midst pillars upon which the house stood (and he leaneth himself upon them), the one with his right hand and the other with his left.
For I have none else like-minded, who will verily charge concerning thee.
And thus she did every year, when the time returned that they went up to the temple of Jehovah: and provoked her: but Anna thus she wept, and did not eat.
Then Manoah said unto the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name's sake, that when thy words be fulfilled we may give thee majesty?
And he said unto him, "Far from it: Thou shalt not die! Look, my father doeth not anything large or small unless he reveals it unto me. Why should my father hide this thing or anything from me?"
Receive him therefore with all joy in Jehovah; and treat with honor such as he is.
And it came to pass when they saw him, that they brought thirty companions, and they were with him.
Then Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house to Gibeah of Saul.
And unto Jesus the mediator of the new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling, that speaketh better things than that of Abel.
And David and his men went up and fell upon the Geshurites and the Girzites and the Amalekites; for these were they that dwelt in the land from Telam in the way to Shur; and he sojourned as far as Egypt.
And he said, "I have sinned; yet please honor me now before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and return with me, that I may worship Yahweh thy God."
And the children of Ammon went over the Jordan, to fight against Judah and Benjamin, and the house of Ephraim: and Israel was in great distress.
Nay, my sons; for it is no good report that I hear! Thou make Yahweh's people disobey.
and all the evil of the men of Shechem hath God turned back upon their head, and come unto them doth the cursing of Jotham son of Jerubbaal.
And at their first and fight, Jonathan and his servant slew of the Syrians about twenty men, all in the midst of the space of half an acre of land.
And Jehovah defeated them before the children of Israel, and they slew of them in that day five and twenty thousand, and one hundred, all mighty and that drew the sword.
And Jephthah sent messengers again unto the king of the children of Ammon:
And Samuel yet hath not known Jehovah, and the word of Jehovah is not yet revealed unto him.
So Jephthah said unto the elders of Gilead, "If thou bring me to return to battle against the Ammonites, and Yahweh giveth them over unto me, shall I be thy head?"
And he took the elders of the city and made them to cast upon a bed of thorns and sharp straw.
Remember thy prelates that have spoken the word of God unto thee; whose faith follow, considering the end of their conversation,
And three thousand men of Judah go down unto the cleft of the rock Etam, and say unto Samson, `Hast thou now known that the Philistines are rulers over us? and what this thou hast done unto us?' And he saith unto them, `As they did unto me, therefore I did unto them.'
Now when the Philistines heard that the Israelites had gathered at Mizpah, the rulers of the Philistines went up against Israel. And when the Israelites heard of it, they were afraid of the Philistines.
Jonathan therefore made a covenant with the house of David; and Jehovah required it at the hand of David's enemies.
The Lord therefore left all these nations, and would not quickly destroy them, neither did he deliver them into the hand of Josue.
Yet he restored the money unto his mother; and his mother took two hundred shekels of silver, and gave them unto the founder, that made thereof a graven image and a molten image; and they were in the house of Micah.
And the Levite was content to dwell with the man; and the young man was unto him as one of his sons.
While they were making merry, and refreshing their bodies with should eat and drink, after the labour of the journey, the men of that city, sons of Belial, (that is, without yoke,) came and beset the old man's house, and began to knock at the door, cursed still to the master of the house, and voice, saying, Bring forth the man that came into thy house, that we may abuse him.
Now Samuel didn't yet know Jehovah, neither was yet Yahweh's word revealed unto him.
And Benjamin returned at that time, and they gave unto them the women whom they kept alive from Jabesh-gilead; but they were not for them.
But thou art come unto the mount Zion, unto the place of the living God, to the Jerusalem that is in heaven, and to an army of angels which cannot be numbered of them,
For the rest, my brethren, rejoice in Jehovah. And thou shalt write the same things unto you is no burden unto me, and for thou it is safe.
by faith Rahab the harlot did not perish with them that disbelieved, having received the spies with peace.
And then men of Cariathiarim came and fetched up the ark of Jehovah, and carried it into the house of Abinadab, in Gabaa: and they sanctified Eleazar his son, to keep the ark of Jehovah.
And it was so. And rising before day wringing the fleece, he filled a vessel with the dew.
Then Yahweh said unto Samuel, "Listen unto the voice of the people concerning all that they say unto thee; for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me from being king over them.
and he findeth a fresh jaw-bone of an ass, and putteth forth his hand, and taketh it, and smiteth with it -- a thousand men.
For by one offering he hath made perfect for ever them that are made holy.
For the word of God liveth, and full of power, and is sharper than any two-edged sword, cut through and make a distinction even of the soul, and the spirit, the bones and the muscles, and hasty to see the thoughts and purposes of the heart.
and I have taken my bread, and my water, and my flesh, which I slaughtered for my shearers, and hast given men whom I have not known whence they !'
And they came to the foresaid hill, and behold a company of prophets met him: and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he prophesied in the midst of them.
And David put his hand into the sack, and took thence a stone, and slang it, and smote the Philistine in his forehead, and the stone sank into his forehead; and he fell upon his face to the ground.
So Saul sent his servants to Jesse and said, Send me thy son, David that is with the sheep.
Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel mourned for him, and buried him in Ramatha his city. And Saul had put away all the magicians and soothsayers out of the land.
In the days of Shamgar the son of Anath, in the days of Jael, The paths were unused, and the foreigner that shall come upon highways passed by crooked paths.
All these were overthrown in faith, not having had the it; and having seen it with delight afar off, they gave witness that they were scattered abroad and not of the earth.
And Eli answer and said, Go thy way; and the God of Israel grant thee thy petition which thou hast asked of him.
Hear ye the women laughter by the water-springs; there shall they give again the parable of the righteous acts of Jehovah, all the righteous acts of his arm in Israel.
As thou go from with me this day thou shalt find two men nigh unto the burial site of Rachel in the territory of Benjamin at Zelzah. They shall say unto you, 'The female donkeys that thou went to seek for have been found.' Now look, thy father is no more concerned concerning the female donkeys and hath begun worrying about thee, saying, 'What should I do about my son?'
And she said unto her father, "Let this thing be done for me: grant me two months that I may go wander upon the mountains and lament over my companions. I and my virginity,
Not as though I had already attained, either were already perfect: but I follow after, if that I may apprehend that for which also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus.
And David heareth in the wilderness that Nabal is shearing his flock,
but now they seek a good, that is, a heavenly; wherefore God is not ashamed of them, that they may be called their God; for he hath prepared for them a city.
So the people did eat in their hand, and their trumpets; and he sent all the men of Israel every man to his tent, but retained the three hundred men; and the camp of Midian was beneath him in the valley.
That we also may be like unto all the nations; and that our king may judge us, and go out before us, and battle our battles.
And in that night Saul sent messengers to David's house to keep him so as to kill him in the morning: and David's wife Michal said unto him, If thou go not away to a refuge this night ye shall be slain in the morning.
And Samuel spoke unto all the house of Israel, saying, "If with all thy heart, ye turn to Jehovah, remove the foreign gods, and Ashtoreths from thy midst. Commit thy heart to Yahweh and serve him alone. Then he will deliver thee from the hand of the Philistines."
Then the lords of the Philistines brought up to her seven green withs which had not been dried, and she bound him with them.
But if ye are without discipline, whereof all have been made partakers, then are ye illegitimate, and not children.
how shall we escape if we neglect so great a salvationwhich at the first having been spoken through the Lord, was confirmed unto us, who heard;
they were stoned, and they were sawn asunder, they were tried; in the killing of the sword they died; they went about in sheepskins, in goatskins -- being destitute, afflicted, injuriously treated,
And it cometh to pass, in those days, when there is no king in Israel, that there is a man a Levite, a sojourner in the sides of the hill-country of Ephraim, and he taketh to him a wife, a concubine, out of Beth-Lehem-Judah;
`And ye know that Nahash king of the Bene-Ammon hath come against you, and ye say unto me, Nay, but a king doth reign over us; and Jehovah thy God thy king.
And it came to pass, when they saw him, that they brought thirty companions to be with him.
But the princes of the Philistines were incensed against him, and they said unto him: Let this man return, and abide in his place, which thou hast appointed him, and let him not go down with us to battle, lest he be an adversary unto us, when we shall begin to them: for how can he otherwise appease his teacher: but with our heads?
And she put him to sleep upon her lap; then she called the men, and shaved off seven set his head. And she began to subdue him, and his strength departed from him.
And he stripped himself also of his garments, and prophesied with the rest before Samuel, and lay down naked all that day and night. This gave occasion to a proverb: What! is Saul too among the prophets?
And he said, Ye have taken away my gods which I made, and the priest, and ye are passed away; and what have I unto my lord and what is this that ye say unto me, What aileth thee?
Now Saul spoke to Jonathan his son and to all his servants about killing David, but Saul's son Jonathan liked David very much.
And the ark of God was taken: and the two sons of Heli, Ophni, and Phinees, were slain.
David therefore arose in the morning, and gave the charge of the flock to the shepherd; and went away loaded as Isai had commanded him. And he came to the place of Magala, and to the army, which was going out to battle, and shouted for the battle.
And her lord riseth in the morning, and openeth the gates of the house, and goeth forth to go on his way, and lo, the woman, his concubine, is fallen at the dedication of the house, and her hands upon the threshold,
But as touching which of the angels said he ever, Sit at my right hand until I put thine enemies footstool of thy feet?
And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and were sore afraid.
For indeed we have had gospel preached unto us, even as they also did, but the word they heard didn't profit them, because it wasn't mingled with faith by them that heard.
And the men of Judah said, "Why hast thou rise up against us?" And they said, "To bind Samson; to do unto him just as he did unto us."
And David said unto Saul, Who am I, and what is my father's family in Israel, that I am to be son-in-law to the king?
And I am convinced in Jehovah that I myself will shortly arrive also.
For unto which of the angels did he say "You art my son, this day have I begotten you," and again, "I shall be his father, and he shall be my son"?
And the children of Benjamin coming out of Gabaa, slew of the children of Israel that day two and twenty thousand men.
For they all follow after that which is they, not after the things of Christ.
And it shall be, when Jehovah shall have done to thee, my lord, all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and shall have made thee prince over Israel,
When the messengers came, unto their hissing, the idol was upon the bed with the quilt of goat's hair at the head.
And Judah rebelled against the Canaanites that dwelt in Hebronthe name of Hebron before was Kirjath-Arba; and they slew Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai.
And David saith unto Achish, `If, I pray thee, I have found favor in thine eyes, they give unto me a place in one of the cities of the field, and I dwell there, yea, why doth thy servant dwell in the royal city with thee?'
And for this cause it is through him that a new covenant is come born, that after the iniquity under the first covenant had been carried away by his death, the word of God might be fulfilled for them that were sealed out for an everlasting inheritance.
And Abimelech son of Jerub-Baal went to Shechem, unto the relatives of his mother, and he said unto them, and to the house of his mother's father,
but emptied himself, taking the likeness of a servant, being made in the likeness of men.
And the Philistine said unto David, Come unto me, and I will give thy flesh unto the fowls of the heavens, and to the beasts of the field.
We made a raid on the south of the Cherethites, and upon that which belongs unto Judah, and on the south of Caleb; and we burned Ziklag, with fire."
And the house of Joseph, they also went up against Bethel; and Jehovah was with them.
And Samuel lieth until the morning, and openeth the gates of the house of Jehovah, and Samuel is afraid of declaring the vision unto Eli.
and the uncle of Saul unto him, and saith unto his young man, `Whither went ye?' and he saith, `To seek the asses, and we know that they are not, and we come in unto Samuel.'
Answered: I came into Gabaa of Benjamin with my wife, and there I lodged:
Now the appointed time to the men of Israel with the ambush was that they sent up for them in smoke out of the city.
What is it then? at any rate, in every way, whether in pretext or in truth, Christ is announced; and in this I rejoice, yea, also I will rejoice;
Thus saith Jephte: Israel were not taken away: the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon:
And Achish answered and said, It is true that in mine eyes thou art good, as an angel of God: yet the rulers of the Philistines have said, He is not to go up with us to battle.
And David arose in secret, And came to the place where Saul Siloam, and when he had beheld the place, wherein Saul slept, and Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his army, and Saul and sleep in a tent, and the rest of the multitude round about him,
And Abimelech rose up, and all the people that were with him, by night, and they lay in ambush against Shechem in four companies.
Then David said unto Saul, "Why do ye listen to the words of people that write: 'Look, David is seeking to do ye harm'?
And I will go forth, and stand by my father's side in the field near where ye do; and I will enter into speaking with my father about thee, and when I see how things are, I will give thee word.
Now there was a certain man of Ramathaim, a Zuphite of the hill-country of Ephraim, called Elkanah; he was the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephraimite:
But the king of the children of Ammon, did not listen unto the message that Jephthah sent unto him.
And Judah rebelled against the Canaanites that dwelt in Hebron: (now the name of Hebron before was Kirjatharba:) and they slew Talmai. and Ahiman, Sheshai, and
And he said unto them, What have I done now in or compare thee? Is not the gleaning of the grapes of Ephraim better than the vintage of Abiezer?
Now this man used to go up from his city year by year to worship and to sacrifice to Yahweh of hosts in Shiloh, where the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas were priests unto Jehovah I
For it is impossible that with the blood of oxen, and goats sin should be taken away.
And he said, Thou hast delivered my gods which I made, and my priest, and are gone away; what is there for me now? Why then do ye say unto me, What aileth thee?
And also all the generation, were gathered unto their fathers: and there arose another generation after them, which knew not Jehovah, nor yet the works which he had done for Israel.
And Zebah and Zalmunna in Karkor, and their camps with them, about fifteen thousand and all that are left of all the camp of the sons of the east; and they fell a hundred and twenty thousand men, drawing sword.
There is both straw and fodder for our donkeys, and also bread and wine for me, for thy servant, and for the young man that is with thy servant; there is no lack of anything."
for every chief priest to offer sacrifices is appointed, both gifts and whence [it is] necessary for this one to have also something that he may offer;
Perhaps he is now dividing the spoils, and the fairest of the women is chosen out for him: garments of divers colours are given Sisara for his prey, and furniture of divers kinds is heaped together to adorn the necks of them.
And Jehovah spake unto Gideon, The people that are with thee are too the countries, and for me to give the Midian into their hand, lest Israel vaunt themselves against me, saying, Mine own hand hath saved me.
Then Samuel told all the words of Jehovah unto the people that had pleasant a king of him,
So Jehovah let the nations dwell in the land, not drive them out quickly, and did not deliver them into the hand of Joshua.
And he went to his father's house at Ophrah, and he killed his brethren, the sons of Jerub-Baal, seventy men, on the one stone. But Jotham the youngest son of Jerub-Baal survived, because he hid himself.
And it was from that day forward; and he made it a statute and an ordinance for Israel unto this day.
and she was in bitterness of soul, and prayed unto Jehovah, and wept much.
They were already far from the house of Micah, when the men that were in the houses near to Micah's house were gathered together, and overtook the children of Dan.
And the people flew upon the spoil, and took sheep and oxen, and calves, and slew them on the ground: and the people did eat them with the blood.
And without all contradiction, that which is less, is blessed by the good.
And watching; and, behold, if the daughters of Shiloh, come out to partake of the dances, then come from the vineyards and take a wife for each one of you from among the daughters of Shiloh, and return unto the land of Benjamin.
Then Gideon came to the Jordan, and passed over it with his three hundred much discouraged because of and in the famine.
And Gideon had threescore and ten sons of his loins begotten: for he had the countries, wife.
And the Philistines have been gathered unto battle with Israel; thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and a people as the sand which upon the sea-shore for multitude; and they come up and encamp in Michmash, east of Beth-Aven.
And the hand of Jehovah is heavy upon the Ashdodites, and He maketh them desolate, and smiteth them with emerods, Ashdod, and its borders.
In those days there was no king in Israel, but every man did that which was right in his own eyes.
But he called upon Jehovah, voice, O Lord Jehovah, remember me, and restore to me now my former strength, O my God, that I may revenge me upon the enemies, and for the loss of my two eyes I shall take one revenge.
And when Gedeon had heard the dream, and the interpretation thereof, he adored: and returned to the camp of Israel, and spoken: Arise, for Jehovah hath delivered the camp of Madian into our hand.
And they took that Micah had made, and his priest, and they came to Laish, patience and unsuspecting people, and they smote them with the sword, and burned the city with fire.
One course turned in the way to Beth Horon, and one turned on the way toward the border forgiving the valley of Zeboim toward the wilderness.
And David answer the priest, and said unto him: Behold, that which concerneth women, we have refrained ourselves from yesterday and the day before, when we came out, and the vessels of the young men were holy. Now this way is defiled, but it shall also be sanctified this day in the vessels.
For Jehovah liveth, who hath saved Israel, though it be in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die. And no one answer him among all the people.
I said, The Philistines shall come down now upon me to Gilgal, and I have not made supplication unto Jehovah; and I cast myself, and offer up the burnt-offering.
As soon as ye be come into the city, straightway ye shall find him, lest he go up to the high place to eat: for the people shall not eat until he come, because he doth bless the sacrifice; and afterwards they eat that be bidden. Now therefore call thee up; for about this time ye shall find him.
And the Angel of Jehovah put forth the end of the staff that was in his hand, and touch the flesh and the unleavened bread, and there rose up fire out of the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened bread. And the Angel of Jehovah departed out of his sight.
Now therefore, O king, come down according to all the desire of thy soul to come down; and our part shall be to deliver him into the king's hand.
But year by year there is a remembrance of sins in those sacrifices.
And the children of Ammon were gathered together, and encamped in Gilead. And the children of Israel assembled themselves together, and encamped in Mizpeh.
And he saith, refuseth, and `I do not eat;' and his servants urge upon him, and also the woman, and he hearkeneth unto their voice, and riseth from the earth, and sitteth upon the bed.
So Yahweh left those nations, without drive them out hastily. He didn't deliver them into Joshua's hand.
that thy boasting may abound in Christ Jesus in me through my presence again unto you.
if thus they say unto us, `Stand yet until we are come unto you,' then we have stood in our place, and go not up unto them;
and he said unto him, "Thus saith Jephthah: Israel didn't take away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon,
Why then didst thou not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, but didst fall upon the spoil, and didst that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah?
And Saul heareth -- and all Israel -- these words of the Philistine, and they are broken down and sore afraid.
And Ahinoam hath David taken from Jezreel, and they are -- even both of them -- to him for wives;
Blessed is thy discretion, and blessed art thou, that have kept me this day from blood guiltiness, and from avenging myself with mine own hand.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; for he had nine hundred set with chariots scythes, and for twenty years had grievously oppressed them.
Always in all my prayers make supplication for you all, with joy;
Then Saul and the men of Israel were gathered and encamped in the valley of Elah and they formed ranks for the battle to meet the Philistines.
Now Yahweh had revealed this to Samuel the day before Saul arrived, saying,
And the servants of David come in unto Abigail at Carmel, and speak unto her, saying, `David hath sent us unto thee to take thee to him for a wife.'
And Saul said unto his servant, Well spoken: come, let us go. So they went to the city which the man of God was.
Please, do not depart from here until I return unto thee, and bring forth my gift and set it out before you." And he said, "I shall stay until thou return."
'Are they not finding and dividing the plunder? A bedmate or two bedmates for every man; colorful garments for Sisera, plunder of colorful garments, skilfully finished colorful garments, upon the neck of the plunderer?'
and there is not a created thing not manifest before him, but all things naked and opened unto His eyes -- in whom is our reckoning.
And Abimelech fought against the city all that day; and he took the city, and slew the people that was therein, and beat down the city, and sowed it with salt.
And again the Israelites did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah I So Yahweh strengthened Eglon king of Moab against Israel, because they did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah I
It shall be, when their fathers nor their brethren come to complain unto us, that we shall say unto them, 'Grant them graciously unto us, because we didn't take for each man his wife in battle, neither didst thou give them unto them, otherwise ye would now be guilty.'"
And the hand of Jehovah was heavy upon them of Ashdod, and he laid them desolate, and smote them with hemorrhoids,Ashdod and its borders.
And he shall take the tenth of thy seed and of thy vineyards, and give unto his chamberlains and to his servants.
And he judged Israel, three and twenty years. And he died and was buried in Shamir.
And all the children of Israel went forth, and the assembly gathered together as one man, from Dan to Beer-sheba, and the land of Gilead, unto Jehovah at Mizpah.
and David hath great distress, for the people have spoken to stone him: for the soul of all the people hath been bitter, each for his sons and his daughters; and David doth strengthen himself in Jehovah his God.
And David said to know what Achis: Now shalt thou thy servant will do. And Achis said unto David; And I will appoint thee to guard my life for ever.
become followers together of me, brethren, and observe them thus walking, according as ye have us -- a pattern;
for consider again him that endured such gainsaying from the wicked within himself, that ye may not be -- being wearied in your soul faint.
and they give unto him seventy silverings out of the house of Baal-Berith, and Abimelech hireth with them men, vain and unstable, and they go after him;
and that which is briers and thorns bearing disapproved of, both and nigh unto cursing, whose end for burning;
So that when he cometh into the world, he saith, Thou would none sacrifices, but thou made a body ready for me;
And the men of Israel and of Judah shouted, and arose, and pursued the Philistines, until thou come to the valley, and to the gates of Ekron. And the wounded of the Philistines fell down by the way to Shaaraim, even unto Gath, and unto Ekron.
and ye have seen if the way of its own border it goeth up to Beth-Shemesh -- He hath done unto us this great evil; and if not, then we have known that His hand hath not come against us; an accident it hath been to us.'
And David cried unto the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Answerest thou not, Abner? Then Abner answer and said, Who art thou that criest to the king?
And when Jephte returned into Maspha unto his house, his only daughter met him with timbrels and with dances: for he had no other children.
And there shall be no need every man to teach his brother, or his neighbor, saying, This is the knowledge of Jehovah; for they shall all know me, great and small.
And Ehud, went out into the portico, and shut the gates of the upper-chamber upon him, and bolted them.
Then the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul, and spoke these words in the ears of the people, then all the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
So David and his men arose about six hundred men, and went out from Keilah and wandered whither they could go. When it was told to Saul that David had escaped from Keilah, he stopped from his pursuit.
The men of the city said unto him on the seventh day before the going down of the sun "What is sweeter than honey? What is stronger than a lion?" And he said unto them, "If thou wast not plowed with my heifer, ye would not have found out my riddle."
for it is impossible for blood of bulls and goats to make atonement sins.
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up, but behold, I have delivered the land into his hand.
And they turned and fled toward the wilderness unto the rock of Rimmon: and they gleaned of them in the highways five thousand: and pursued hard after them unto Gidom, and slew two thousand men of them.
And thou shalt make straight paths for thy feet, and the weak cannot be turned out of the way, but may be made strong.
Jehovah judge between me and thee, and Jehovah avenge me of thee: but mine, hand shall not be upon thee.
And they said, Behold, every year there is a feast of Jehovah in Shiloh, which is on the north of Beth-el, on the east side of the highway that goeth up from Beth-el to Shechem, and on the south of Lebonah.
As faith, he left Egypt, not and one that feared the wrath of the king; for he endured, as seeing him that is invisible.
and the men that have not died have been smitten with emerods, and the cry of the city goeth up into the heavens.
And it came to pass in those days, when there was no king in Israel, a certain Levite dwelt in the uttermost parts of the hill-country of Ephraim, and had a servant-wife from Beth-lehem-judah.
Then Nahash the Ammonite came up, and encamped against Jabeshgilead: and all the men of Jabesh said unto Nahash, Make a covenant with us, and we will serve thee.
He struck seventy men among the men of Beth Shemesh because they told thee, the ark of Jehovah I So the people mourned because Yahweh had struck a great stroke among the people.
So David and Abishai she came to the people by night: and, behold, Saul lay and sleep within the court of the wagons, with his spear stuck in the ground at his head; and Abner and the people lay around him.
For we -- willfully a trespass after the receiving the knowledge of the truth -- no more for sins doth there remain a sacrifice,
Then the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it unto the temple of Dagon and set it beside Dagon.
Now of the things which we have spoken this is the sum: We have such a high priest, who is set on the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens; And
But if ye will not listen to Yahweh's voice, but rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then Yahweh's hand shall be against thee, as it was against your fathers.
So Gideon, and the hundred men that were with him, came to the outermost part of the camp in the beginning of the midst watch, when they had but there that hath set the guard. And they blew the trumpets, and broke in pieces the pitchers that were in their hands.
not according to the covenant which I made with their fathers that I brought them by the hand, to be brought them forth out of the land of Egypt; for they kept not the covenant with me, and I gave them up, saith Jehovah.
but we see Jesus, for a little while, and made lower than the angels, because of the suffering of death crowned with glory, and honor, that apart from God he might taste death on behalf of everyone.
And Jehovah, the God of Israel, gave Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel; and they smote them: so all the land of the Amorites, to the people of the land, became Israel's.
And Jonathan said unto David; Whatsoever thy soul shall say unto me, I will do to thee.
And then in the morning, Jonathan went out into the field for the appointment with David, and a young lad was with him.
Though I might also have confidence in the flesh. If any other thinketh he may have confidence in the flesh, I more,
And Jehovah said unto Gideon, Yet shall the people are many; bring them down to the water, and I will try them for thee there, and it shall come to pass, of whom I shall say unto thee, This shall go with thee, the same shall go with thee; and of whomsoever I shall say unto thee, This shall not go with thee, the same shall not go.
They chased them, encompassed the Benjaminites, trode them down at the place over against Gibeah toward the sun-rising.
And his concubine played the whore against him, and departed from him to her father's house to Bethlehem-Judah, and was there some time,four months.
And the Israelites cried unto Jehovah, as he had nine hundred iron chariots, and he oppressed the Israelites and persecuted for twenty years.
As faith he abode in the land, dwelling in cottages, with Isaac, and Jacob, the co-heirs of the same promise.
And the word of Samuel shall all Israel, and Israel goeth forth to meet the Philistines for battle, and they encamp by Eben-Ezer, and the Philistines have encamped in Aphek,
And the old man said, "Peace unto you. I will keep thy needs; yet thou must not spend the night in the open square."
And at their words, the Spirit of God came upon Saul with power, and he began to displeased.
But David was the of his sons. So the three eldest having followed Saul,
David went up from thence and stayed in the strongholds of En Gedi.
So my brethren, beloved and dear unto me, my joy and crown; be strong in the Lord, my chosen ones.
For when the flame went up toward the shadows from off the altar, Yahweh's angel ascended in the flame of the altar. Manoah and his wife, watched; and they fell upon their faces to the ground.
For he was yet in the loins of his father, when Melchisedech met him.
And the messenger of God saith unto him, `Take the flesh and the unleavened things, and place on this rock -- and the broth pour out;' and he doth so.
So when the demon from God came unto Saul, David should bring the stringed instruments and play it with his hand. And it would bring relief for Saul; he would feel better and the evil spirit would depart from him.
As faith Abraham, tried, offer up Isaac, and he that had received to himself the promises offer up his only begotten ,
who, being the outshining of his glory, the true image of his substance, stayed up all things by the word of his majesty, when he had given himself a ransom purifying from sins, sat at the right hand of God in heaven;
The man went into the land of the Hittites, built a city, and called the name Luz, which is the name unto this day.
Naphtali hath not dispossessed the inhabitants of Beth-Shemesh, and the inhabitants of Beth-Anath, and he dwelleth in the midst of the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land; and the inhabitants of Beth-Shemesh and of Beth-Anath are become tributary unto them.
and of doing good, and of fellowship, be not forgetful, for with such sacrifices God is well-pleased.
For here we do not eat permanent city, but we seek the city that is to come.
And thou hast made known unto me the kindness which thou hast been unto me this day; that crusheth when Jehovah gave me up into thy hand, thou didst not kill me.
and Saul threw the for he said, "I shall pin David even to the wall!" David escaped from his presence twice.
And God hearkeneth unto the voice of Manoah, and the messenger of God cometh again unto the woman, and she sitting in the field, and, lo, Manoah her husband is not with her,
He saith unto him, "Do not be afraid, for the hand of my father Saul shall not find you. Ye shall be king over Israel, and I will be second unto you. My father Saul knows this also."
for a sin of divination rebellion, and iniquity and teraphim stubbornness; because thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, He also reject doth thee from king.'
Then Zebah and Zalmunna said, Arise, Consume us thyself: for thou hast a man's strength. And Gideon arose, and put Zebah and Zalmunna and took the bracelets that were on their camels' necks of them.
And they set the ark of Jehovah in the cart, and the chest, with the gold idols.
Yahweh shall shatter his adversaries; he shall thunder against them in the heavens. Yahweh shall judge the ends of the earth. He will give strength unto his king and will exalt the might of his anointed one.
And David saith, `What have I done now? is it not a word?'
Gaal the son of Ebed came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem; and the men of Shechem put their trust in him.
So all the men of Israel arose, and set themselves in strife commandment at Baal-tamar: and they that had been wait to make an ambush and, behold, there came out of their place on the west of Gibeon.
And Debbora said unto Barac: Arise, for this is the day wherein Jehovah hath delivered Sisara into thy hand: behold he is thy leader. And Barac went down from mount Thabor, and ten thousand valiant men with him.
Now therefore, I pray thee, give up the men -- sons of worthlessness -- which in Gibeah, and we slay them, and we put away the evil from Israel.' And [the sons of] Benjamin have not been willing to hearken unto the voice of their brethren, the sons of Israel;
The Lord giveth riches, and taketh a man's spoil of him: and treadeth men down and again I lifted up;
And let us be provoke one another always to love and good works;
Thou shalt not so, my sons: for it is no good report that I hear, that ye make the people of Jehovah, to transgress.
So the priest called his holy baketh bread: yea, there was no other only the showbread, which have been bereaved of before Jehovah; that new bread might be they shall set up in the day that it was taken away.
And he saith unto her, `What his form?' and she saith, `An aged man cometh up; and he covered with an upper robe;' and Saul knoweth that he boweth and Samuel, -- face to thee earth doth -- and obeisance.
And on the morrow, men arose early and builded an altar there, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
And the hand of Jehovah was heavy upon the Azotians, and he destroyed them, and afflicted Azotus and the coasts thereof with emerods. And in the villages and fields in the midst of that country; there came forth a multitude of mice, and there was the confusion of a great mortality in the city.
And they rise and go up to Beth-El, and ask of God, and the sons of Israel say, `Who doth go up for us at the commencement to battle with the sons of Benjamin?' and Jehovah saith, `Judah -- at the commencement.'
And the measure, of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of spoilers that spoiled them; and he sold them into the hand of their enemies round about; and they could not any more stand before their enemies.
All the men of Shechem assembled themselves together, and all the house of Millo, and went and made Abimelech king by the oak of the pillar that was in Shechem.
And all the men of Israel, when they saw him, they are fled
But he began to be for rising up departing. And nevertheless his father in law earnestly pressed him, and made him stay with him.
and commit whoredom against him doth his concubine, and she goeth from him unto the house of her father, unto Beth-Lehem-Judah, and is there days -- four months.
She said, "Excuse me, my lord. As thou live, my lord, I am the woman that stood with thee in this place, to pray unto Jehovah I
The Israelites did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah I They forgot Yahweh their God, and they served the Baalim and the Asheroth.
And the golden mice, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five lords, both of fenced cities, and of country villages, even unto the great stone of Abel. whereon they set down the ark of Jehovah: which stone remaineth unto this day in the field of Joshua the Bethshemite.
When thou shalt depart from me this day, thou shalt find two men by the sepulchre of Rachel in the borders of Benjamin toward the south, and they shall say unto thee: The asses are found which thou wentest to seek: and thy father thinking no more of the asses, is concerned for you, and saith: What shall I do for my son?
And Saul commanded Jonathan his son and to all his servants to have slain David. But Saul's son Jonathan had great delight in David.
He tribute to offer the Eglon king of Moab. Now Eglon was a very fat man.
And the ancients of Jabes said unto him: Allow us seven days, that we may send messengers unto all the coasts of Israel: and if there be none to defend us, we will come out to thee.
And the servants of David said unto him: Behold the day, of which Jehovah said unto thee: I will deliver thy enemy unto thee, that thou mayest do unto him as it shall seem good in thy sight. And David arose, and secretly cut off the hem of Saul's robe.
And there went from thence of the family of the Danites that could set out of Zorah, and out of Eshtaol, six hundred men appointed with weapons of war.
For I will be merciful unto their unrighteousness. I will remember their sins, and lawless more." no deeds
And Nabal answereth the servants of David, and saith, `Who David, and that the son of Jesse: to-day have servants been multiplied that are breaking away each from his master;
And call Jesse to be present at the oblation and I will show thee the thing that ye shall do: and thou shalt anointed him whose name I give thee.
I will go forth, and stand beside my father in the field where thou art, and I will speak with my father about you; and if I see Joseph's hand; and I will tell you."
Now the asses of Saul's father Kish was gone to wander away. And Kish said unto his son Saul, Take one of the servants with thee, and rise and seek the asses.
And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnath Heres, in the hill country of Ephraim, on the north of the mountain of mountain of Gaash.
Yahweh do so to Jonathan and more also, should it please my father to do you evil, if I don't disclose it unto you, and send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace. The Yahweh be with thee, as he hath been with my father.
What is it matter? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is proclaimed. I rejoice in this, yea, and shall rejoice.
What shall we do for themfor the ones being left overfor wives? For we have sworn by Yahweh not to give unto them our daughters as wives."
And it happened, when he finished speaking he threw the jawbone from his hand; and he called that place Ramath Lehi.
And Gideon sent messengers throughout mount Ephraim, saying, Come down against Midian, and take before them the waters unto Beth-barah, and the the Jordan. And all the men of Ephraim were called together, and took the waters unto Beth-barah, and the the Jordan.
They both made a covenant before Jehovah I Then David stayed in the forest, and Jonathan went to his house.
He that brought the tidings answered, "Israel hath fled before the Philistines, and there hath been also a great slaughter among the people. Thy two sons also, Hophni and Phinehas are dead, and God's ark hath been captured."
And they journeyed wait for they were put to shame, But the doors were yet shut: so they took the key, and opened them, saw their lord stretched out dead on the ground.
that the daughters of Israel went yearly to celebrate the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite four days in a year.
Whence also he is able to save utterly them that approach by him unto God, always living to intercede for them.
As they went down to the suburbs of the city, Samuel said unto Saul, "Tell the servant to pass over before us. When he hath passed, ye stand here a while, that I can make known unto you the word of God."
Otherwise as Jehovah liveth the God of Israel, that hath withholden me from doing thee any evil: if thou hadst not quickly come to meet me, there had not been left to Nabal by the morning light any that pisseth against the wall.
They said unto Jephthah, "Come and be our chief, that we may battle with the children of Ammon."
And Gideon hath gone in, and prepareth a kid of the goats, and of an ephah of flour unleavened things; the flesh he hath put in a basket, and the broth he hath put in a pot, and he bringeth out unto him, unto the place of the oak, and bringeth nigh.
Then Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath rent the kingdom of Israel from thee to-day, and gave it unto thy neighbor, that is better than thou.
And called his tidings, how Saul had killed the Lord's priests.
So whensoever the demon from Jehovah was upon Saul, David took his harp, and played with his hand, and Saul begat refreshed, and was good, for the demon departed from him.
He captured Agag the king of Amalek alive, but all the people he utterly destroyed with the edge of the sword.
When Abimelech had reigned three years over Israel,
And they gave unto him seventy pieces of silver, from the temple of Baal-Berith, and Abimelech hired with them worthless and reckless men, and they followed him.
fulfil ye my joy, that ye may mind the same thing -- having the same love -- of one soul -- minding the one thing,
And it came to pass, as soon as he had accomplished offering up the burnt-offering, behold, Samuel came; and Saul went out to meet him, that he might salute him.
And Samuel saith unto all Israel, `Lo, I have hearkened unto thy voice, unto all that ye said unto me, and I cause to reign over thee a king
For as long as the son of Jesse lives upon the earth, thou shalt not be established, nor shall thy kingdom. Therefore now send and bring him unto me, for he shall surely die!"
marriage [be held] every way in honor; and the bed undefiled; for fornicators and adulterers shall God judge.
Saul sent messengers to David's house, to watch him, and to kill him in the morning. Michal David's wife, told him, saying, "If thou don't save thy life to-night, to-morrow thou shalt be killed."
Therefore the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Jephte, and round about Galaad, and Manasses, and Maspha of Galaad, and passing over from thence unto the children of Ammon,
And his brethren and his father's people came down and took him up, and buried him in the earth between Zorah, and Eshtaol, in the sepulchres of Manoah his father. And he had been judge of Israel for twenty years.
For rebellion is like the iniquity of divination; arrogance is like iniquity and idolatry. Because thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, he hath rejected thee from being king!"
And when Samuel was come unto Saul, Saul, said unto him: Blessed be thou of Jehovah, I have fulfilled the word of Jehovah.
He said, "You have taken away my gods which I made, and the priest, and are gone away! What more do I baptized? How can ye ask me, 'What ails you?'"
Then said I, Lo, I come (in roll of the book it is written of wall do, O God, thy will.
If they say unto us, Keep silence whereon thou standest until we come unto you; then we will keep our places and not go up unto them.
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing; for thou hast given me a southern land; give me also springs of water. And Caleb gave her the upper springs and the nether springs.
Who in the days of his flesh, with a mighty cry and tears, offering up prayers and supplications unto him that were able to save him from death, was heard for his reverence.
Then returning from Galgal, where the idols were, be said unto the king: I art a message unto thee, O king. And he commanded silence: and all being gone out that were about him,
Let us go therefore with confidence to the throne of grace; that we may obtain lovingkindness, And find favor in seasonable aid.
And Gideon made an ephod thereof, and put it in his city, even in Ophrah: and all Israel went thither a whoring after it: which thing became a snare unto Gideon, and to his house.
Now Eli was ninety-eight years old and his eyes stayed appointed ahead and he could not see.
Then Jerubbaal, that is Gideon, and all the people that were with him, rose up early, and encamped beside the well of Harod. Midian's camp was on the north side of them, by the hill of Moreh, in the valley.
But those things which were profit unto me, I gave up for Christ.
And they gave him a piece of a cake of figs, and two clusters of raisins: and when he had eaten, his spirit came again unto him: for he had eaten no bread, nor drunk any water, three days and three nights.
Then David said unto the Philistine, "You are coming unto me with a sword and with a spear and with a javelin, but I am coming to you in the name of Yahweh of hosts, the God of the battle rows of Israel, whom thou hast defied!
Asher didn't drive out the inhabitants of Acco, nor the inhabitants of Sidon nor of Ahlab, nor of Achzib, nor of Helbah, nor of Aphik, nor of Rehob:
Every man in distress and every man that was a oppressor and every embittered man gathered unto him, and he began to their commander. Now there were about four hundred men with him.
And David cometh in -- and his men -- unto the city, and lo, burnt with fire, and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters have been taken captive!
And she said unto him, Why speakest thou thou art my lover when thy heart is not it? Three times thou hast mocked me, and have not made known unto me the mystery of thy great strength.
We made a raid against the south of the Cherethites, and against what to Judah, and against the south of Caleb; and we burned Ziklag, with fire.
in the which shall we are having been sanctified through the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once,
The staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam; and his spear's head weighed six hundred shekels of iron. His shield bearer went before him.
having become by so much better than the angels, by as much as he hath inherited a more excellent name than theirs.
And when he was come, he blew a trumpet in the hill country of Ephraim: and the children of Israel went down with him from the hill country; and he led them.
And Saul said unto his servants: Seek me a woman that hath a divining spirit, and I will go unto her, and inquire by her. And his servants said unto him: There is a woman that hath a divining spirit at Endor.
for them speaking such words make manifest that they seek a country;
And Saul came to a city of Amalek, and laid wait in the valley.
And Samson said, Behold, I have a hard matter for you: if ye know how to give me the defence before the seven days of the feast are over, I will give thee thirty linen garments and thirty changes of raiment;
And it came to pass, when David and his men came to Ziklag, on the third day, that the Amalekite had made a raid upon the south, and upon Ziklag, and smitten Ziklag, and burnt it with fire;
And he said unto him: God forbid, thou shalt not die: for my father shall do nothing great or little, without first telling me: hath then my father hid this word only from me? no, this shall not be.
For they indeed chastened for a few days, as seemed good unto them; but he for talk, in order unto the partaking of his holiness.
When Saul saw that he behaved himself very wisely, he stood in awe of him.
But the children of Benjamin when they saw themselves to be too weak, began to flee. which the children of Israel seeing gave them place to flee, that they should come to the ambushes that were prepared, which they had set nigh unto the city.
And every one in distress, and every one that was debtors, and every one of embittered spirit collected round about him: and he became a captain over them; and there were with him about four hundred men.
As so much is Jesus made a testament. better of a surety
And it cometh to pass, on the morrow, that the spirit of sadness God prospereth over Saul, and he prophesieth in the midst of the house, and David is sporting with his hand, as day by day, and the javelin in the hand of Saul,
and they come in thither unto the height, and lo, a band of prophets -- to meet him, and prosper over him doth the Spirit of God, and he prophesieth in their midst.
And these are the golden emerods, which the Philistines returned for sin unto Jehovah: For Azotus one, for Gaza, one, for Ascalon one, for Geth one, for Accaron one.
And she sent and called Barak the son of Abinoam out of Kedeshnaphtali, and said unto him, Hath not Jehovah, the God of Israel, commanded, saying, Go and draw toward mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali and of the children of Zebulun?
And they said one to another: Who hath done this? And when they inquired for the author of the true it was spoken: Gedeon the son of Joas did all this.
And Othniel, the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother, did eat: and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
Then Ehud, reached with his left hand for the sword upon his right thigh, and he thrust it into his belly.
So Gaal went out at the head of the inhabitants of Shechem and fought against Abimelech.
There was a man from the hill country of Ephraim: his name was Micah.
Then said Saul unto that Michal "Why hast thou deceived me as this and sent away my enemy, so that he escaped?" Michal said unto Saul, "He said unto me, 'Let me go, why should I kill you?'"
So David and Abishai came to the host by night, and there was Saul lying asleep in the encampment with his spear thrust into the ground near his head, and Abner and the host were lying all around him.
Thou tookest no pleasure in burnt-offerings and sacrifices for sin.
For the law, having a shadow of the coming good things, not the image itself of the things, can never, by the same sacrifices which they offer continually perfect them that approach. yearly,
And Saul endeavoured to nail David unto the wall with his spear against And David slipt away out of the presence of Saul: and the spear missed him, and was fastened in the wall, and David fled and escaped that night.
thou shalt not harden thy heart as in the rebellion, in the day of trying in the wilderness,
Ibzan died, and was buried at Bethlehem.
And it was so, that, when they had carried it there, Yahweh's hand was against the city with a very great confusion; and he struck the men of the city, both small and great that tumors broke out upon them.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not: ye have done all this wickedness: yet one by one, not aside from following Jehovah; But serve Jehovah with all thy heart;
And they tarried till they were ashamed: and, behold, he opened not the gates of the parlour; therefore they took a key, and opened them; and, behold, their lord was fallen down dead upon the earth.
Therefore we ought to pay greater heed to the things that were heard, lest perhaps we drift away.
And the children of Dan said unto him: Behold thou say no more unto us, lest men enraged upon thee, and thou perish with all thy house.
So Midian was broken before the children of Israel, and the Midian never restored their strength. And the land had peace forty years, in the days of Gideon.
As faith, Rahab the prostitute, didn't perish with them that were disobedient, having received the spies in peace.
And it hath come to pass, at the death of the judge -- they purifications accomplished, back, and have done corruptly above their fathers, to walk after other gods, and serve them, and to bow themselves unto them; they have not fallen from their doings, and from their stiff way.
And there were found of Jabes Galaad four hundred the virgin, that had not known the bed of a man, and they brought them unto the camp Silo, into the land of Chanaan.
And Hannah answereth and saith, `No, my lord, A woman sharply pained in spirit I , and new wine, and strong drink I have not drunk, and I pour out my soul before Jehovah;
Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him, and gave it unto David, and his garments, even including his sword, his bow, and his sash.
And they came near to the city. As they were entering into the midst of the city, Samuel was coming forth to meet them, to go up to the high place.
Then said I, behold, I am come to do thy will, O God (as it is said of me in the roll of the book).
It shall come to pass, when Yahweh hath done unto my lord according to all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and hath appointed thou prince over Israel,
And when the men of the city arose early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal, was cast down, and the grove was cut down that was by it, and the second bullock sacrificed upon the altar that was built.
For in very deed, as Jehovah, the God of Israel, liveth, which hath kept me back from thee, hurting except thou hadst hasted and come to meet me, surely there had not been left unto Nabal by the morning light any that pisseth against the wall.
On the next day, the people rose early, and built an altar there, and offer burnt sacrifices and peace sacrifices.
Now therefore stand up, that I may plead in judgment against thee before Jehovah, concerning all the kindness of Jehovah, which he hath shewn unto thee, and unto thy fathers;
When he came, behold, Eli was sitting upon his throne by the way watching; for his heart trembled for God's ark. When the man came into the city and told about it, all the city cried out.
not that in respect of want I say , for I did learn of the things that I am -- to be content;
They said, "There must be an inheritance for them that are escaped of Benjamin, that a tribe not be blotted out from Israel.
When he saw her, he tore his clothes, and said, "Alas, my daughter! Thou hast brought me very down, and ye are one of them that trouble me; for I have opened my mouth unto Jehovah, and I can't go back."
and righteous by faith `the `if he may live,' and shall draw back, My soul hath no pleasure in him,'
So Eli said unto Samuel, Go backward: and, behold, if the voice cometh again, let thy answer be, Speak process of Jehovah; for the ears of thy servant are opened. And Samuel returned unto his bed.
For Christ hasn't entered into sanctuaries made with hands, which are representations of the true, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us;
Look, this day thine eyes have seen that Yahweh gave you this day into my hand in the cave, and some said to kill thee. But I took compassion upon thee, and said, 'I shall not their ponds out my hand against my lord, because he is Yahweh's anointed one.'
Abimelech went up unto mount Zalmon, he and all the people that were with him; and Abimelech took an ax in his hand, and cut down a bough from the trees, and brought it up, and laid it upon his shoulder. And he said unto the people that were with him, "What thou hast seen me, do, make haste, and do as I have done!"
for they, indeed, for a few days, according to all that seemed good unto them, were chastening, but He for profit, to be partakers of His separation;
Gideon said unto them, "I do have a request, that thou wouldest each give me the earrings of his plunder." (for they had golden earrings, because they were Ishmaelites.)
And this is the thing that ye shall do, Ye shall utterly destroy every male and every woman that hath lain by man.
looking carefully lest there be any man that falls short of the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness That leapeth up trouble thee, and the countries, and be defiled by it;
And the five men departed, and came to Laish; and they saw the people that were therein, dwelling securely, after the manner of the Sidonians, quiet, and secure; and none was in the land that possessed authority, that might put to shame in anything; and they were far from the Sidonians, and had nothing to do with man.
Behold, I will send the lad, saying, 'Go, find the arrows!' If I tell the lad, 'Behold, the arrows are on this side of you. Take them;' then come; for there is peace to you and safety, as Yahweh souls.
I will draw unto you, to the river Kishon, Sisera, the captain of Jabin's host, with his chariots and his multitude; and I will deliver him into thy hand.'"
The trees went to anoint a king over them: and they said unto the olive tree: Reign thou over us.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David, I pray thee, stand before me; for he hath found favour in my sight.
And the children of Israel returning, after they had pursued the Philistines, fell upon their camp.
and the golden mice, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five lords, both of fortified cities and of country villages, even unto the great stone, whereon they set down Yahweh's ark. that stone remains unto this day in the field of Joshua of Beth Shemesh.
and he hath thirty sons and thirty daughters, he hath sent without and thirty daughters hath brought in to his sons from without; and he judgeth Israel seven years.
that in the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of them in heaven and of them on the earth, and of them that are under the earth,
And they found an Egyptian, in the field, and brought him to David, and gave him bread, and he ate; and they gave him water to drink,
For finding fault with them, he said, "Behold, the days come", saith Jehovah, "that I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah;
And over it were the cherubims of glory overshadowing the propitiatory: of which it is not needful to speak now particularly.
But the hand of Jehovah was heavy upon them of Ashdod, and he destroyed them, and smote them with emerods, even Ashdod, and the coasts thereof.
And there ran a man of Benjamin out of the host, and came to Shiloh, the same day with his clothes rent, and earth upon his head.
Moreover we have had fathers of our flesh, for reverenced them: instructors, and we shall we not much more obey the Father of spirits, and live?
And he said unto him, We are his journeys from Bethlehem-Judah towards the also side of mount Ephraim: from thence am thou; and I went unto Bethlehem-Judah, and I have to do with the house of Jehovah; and there is no man that receives me into his house.
And he smote them hip and thigh with a great slaughter. And he went down and dwelt in the cleft of the cliff Etam.
for my father fought and risked his life for thee, and delivered thee from the hand of Midian;
He asked for water. She gave him milk. She brought him butter, in a lordly dish.
As faith Henoch was translated, that he should not see death, and he was not found, because God had translated him: for before his translation he had testimony that he pleased God.
So take him to your hearts in Jehovah with all joy, and call upon such as he is:
When she came, she rose him to ask her father for a field. She dismounted from off of her donkey; and Caleb said unto her, "What would ye like?"
Therefore, let us make every effort to enter into that rest, in order that none shall fall in the same pattern of disobedience.
And there was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the Danites that could set whose name was Manoah; and his wife was barren, and bare not.
Naphtali did not dispossess the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, nor the inhabitants of Beth-anath; and he dwelt among the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land, but the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, and of Beth-anath, became tributaries unto them.
And the people fell upon the spoil, and took sheep and oxen, and calves, and slaughtered them on the ground; and the people ate with the blood.
The captains of Issachar, were with Debbora, and followed the stairs of Barac, that exposed himself to peril, as one going headlong, and into a pit. Ruben being divided against himself, there was found a strife of courageous men.
But the man was not willing to spend the night, and he arose, and went: and he arrived over against Jebus (that is, Jerusalem). He had with him a pair of saddled donkeys and his concubine.
And Samson saith unto them, `Though ye do thus, nevertheless I am avenged upon thee, and afterwards I cease!'
And they rose up early in the morning, and worshipped before Jehovah, and returned and came to their house at Ramah. And Elkanah knew Hannah his wife; and Jehovah remembered her.
Then Jesse called Abinadab, and made him pass before Samuel, and he said, "This one also Yahweh hath not chosen."
And they turned aside thither, to go in, and to lodge in Gibeah: and when he went in, he sat him down in a street of the city: for there was no man that brought them into his house to lodging.
Then said I, 'Behold, I have come in the roll of the book it is written concerning me to do thy will, O God.'
When the lad came up unto the place of the arrow that Jonathan had shot, Jonathan called out after the lad and said, "Is not beyond the arrow you?"
And on the fourth day they said unto Samson's wife, Rise from thy husband the answer unto his matter by some wickedness, nor other; or else we will hast thou and thy father's house burned with fire; didst thou buy us here to eat all we have?
And to them that were in Aroer, and to them that were in Siphmoth, and to them that were in Eshtemoa,
So David and his men went to Keilah and fought with the Philistines. They drove off their livestock and dealt them a heavy died. And David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
And Delilah took new ropes, and bound him with them, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson! Now there were liers in wait abiding in the chamber. And he broke them from off his arms like a web.
Their horses were none to make shield, there were no more guard in the cities; was there a shield or a spear to be seen among forty thousand in Israel?
[It is] a fearful thing of hand of living God.
Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
And the woman came unto Saul, and saw that he was sore troubled, and said unto him, Behold, thine handmaid hath obeyed thy voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have hearkened unto thy words which thou spakest unto me.
And we shall take ten men of a hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred of a thousand and a thousand out of ten thousand to fetch victual for the people, that they may do, when they come to Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all the folly that they have wrought in Israel.
And Jonathan saith, `Lo, we are passing over unto the men, and are revealed unto them;
for them in Hebron, and for all the places where David and his men had roamed.
And David abode in the wilderness in strongholds, and abode in the mountain in the wilderness of Ziph. And Saul sought him every day, but God did not give him into his hand.
And Samuel saith unto the people, `Fear not; ye have done all this evil; only, purifications accomplished, not aside from after Jehovah -- and ye have served Jehovah with all thy heart,
Her father said, "I most surely that ye utterly detestable her; therefore I gave her to thy companion. Isn't her younger sister with them that she? Please take her, instead."
and apart from faith it is impossible unto please well, for it behoveth him that cometh unto God to believe that He is, and to them seeking He He becometh a rewarder.
When the five lords of the Philistines had seen it, they returned to Ekron the same day.
And he said unto his mother, "The eleven hundred pieces of silver, that were purchased from thee, and concerning which thou also pronounced a curse in my hearing, are with me; I took it." And his mother said, "Blessed be my son by Yahweh."
and having a great priest over God's house,
And when the spies behold, a man leaving the city, they said unto him, "Please show us the entrance of the city, and we will deal it was so, with you."
From year to year he went one by one, to Beth-el, and Gilgal and Mizpah, judging Israel in all them places.
Saul was yet more afraid of David: and Saul begat David's enemy continually.
Yea, and if I offer upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I joy, and rejoice with you all.
And Samuel said unto the cook: Bring the portion, that I gave commanded thee to thee, and set it apart by thee.
"But the olive tree, said unto them, 'Should I leave my fatness, whereby they honor God and man by me, and go to wave back, and forth over the trees?'
And with whom was he angry forty years, was it not with them that did evil, that came unto their deaths in the wilderness?
And for the selfsame thing do ye also rejoice, and congratulate with me.
and have seen and lo, if the daughters of Shiloh, come out to dance in dances -- then ye are gone out from the vineyards, and caught for thou each his wife out of the daughters of Shiloh, and gone into the land of Benjamin,
So David took the spear and the cruse of water from Saul's bolster; and they gat them away, and no man saw it, nor knew it, neither awaked: for they were all asleep; because a deep sleep from Jehovah was fallen upon them.
And Jehovah become a reproach upon him, and said, Go in this thy might, and thou shalt save Israel from the hand of Midian. Have not I sent thee?
And David left the things he was carrying in the hand of the keeper of the baggage, and ran into the ranks, and came and saluted his brethren.
and might deliver both whoever, with fear of death, throughout all their life, were subjects of bondage,
When they were by the house of Micah, they knew the voice of the young man the Levite: and they turned in thither, and said unto him, Who brought thee hither? and what makest thou in this place? and what hast thou here?
And she said, slave female thy "May find favor in thy sight." And the woman went upon her way and ate sake, and her face did not look sad any longer.
And they that were in ambush arose on a sudden out of their coverts, and whilst Benjamin turned their backs unto the slayers, entered into the city, and smote it with the edge of the sword.
So the Israelites removed the Baalim and the Ashtoreths, and they served Yahweh alone.
For finding fault with them, he saith: Behold, the days shall come, saith Jehovah; and I will perfect unto the house of Israel, and unto the house of Juda, a new testament:
Now of the things which we have spoken, this is the sum: We have such a high priest, who is set on the right hand of the throne of majesty in the heavens,
But he himself return from the quarries that were by Gilgal, and said, I have a secret errand unto thee, O king; that said, Ye shall keep silence. And all that stood by him went out from him.
Now a man of God came to Eli and said unto him: "Thus saith Jehovah: 'Did I not clearly reveal myself to the house of thy ancestor when they were in Egypt under the house of Pharaoh?
When ye are gone away from me this day, ye behold two men by the sepulchres of Rachel's body, in the land of Benjamin, at Zelzah; and they shall say unto you, The asses which ye sought have return, and now thy father, and had respect no more for the asses, is anxious concerning thee, saying, What shall I do about my son?
And David saith unto Abishai `Destroy him not; for who hath put forth his hand against the anointed of Jehovah, and been acquitted?'
And Saul sendeth messengers unto the house of David unto watch him, and to slew him in the morning; and Michal his wife declareth unto David, saying, `If thou art not thy life delivering to-night -- to-morrow thou art put to death.'
We made a invasion upon the south of the Cherethites, and upon the coast which belongeth unto Judah, and upon the south of Caleb; and we burned Ziklag, with fire.
The man, the master of the house, went out to meet them, and said unto them, "No, my brethren, please don't deed so wickedly; since this man is come into my house, don't do this folly.
They instructed the descendants of Benjamin, saying, "Go, lie in ambush in the vineyards,
Samuel said, "Just as thy sword bereaved women, so shall thy mother be bereaved among women!" Then Samuel hacked Agag to pieces in the presence of Yahweh to Gilgal.
and Jonathan saith unto David, `Go in peace, in that we have sworn -- we two -- in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah is between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed unto the -- riseth and age;' and he goeth; and Jonathan hath walked in to the city.
Samuel heard all the words of the people, and he rehearsed them in the ears of Jehovah I
And after him Elon the Zebulunite judgeth Israel, and he judgeth Israel ten years,
But Jonathan not knowing the oath his father had put on the people, stretched out the rod that was in his hand, put the end thereof in the honey, and brought it to his mouth; then his eyes were made bright.
Having therefore a great high priest, who hath passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold saith Jehovah; unto our confession.
And Saul inquired of God, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? But he did not answer him that day.
And he waiteth seven days, according to the appointment with Samuel, and Samuel hath not come to Gilgal, and the people are scattered from off him.
and he saith unto them, `Why do ye things as these? for I am ears of your evil words out of all the people -- these!
Then three thousand of the men of Judah went down to the crack of the rock of Etam, and said unto Samson, Is it not to know that the Philistines are our rulers? What is this thou hast done unto us? And he said unto them, I only did unto them as they did unto me.
but into the second, the high priest only, once a year, not without blood, which he offers for himself and for the iniquity of the people:
and build an altar unto Yahweh thy God on the top of this stronghold in the proper arrangement, and take a second bull and offer it as a burnt sin-offering with the wood of the Asherah, that thou shalt cut down.
He took his staff in his hand, and chose for himself five smooth stones out of the brook, and put them in the pouch of his shepherd's bag which he had. His sling was in his hand; and he came near unto the Philistine.
And he said unto them, Thus saith Micah did for me, and he gave me hire, and I became his priest.
And both of them made a covenant before Jehovah: and David dwelt in Horesh, and Jonathan departed unto his house.
Wherefore, holy calling, brethren, partakers of the heavenly consider the apostle and High Priest of our profession, Christ Jesus:
And he saith unto him, `If, I pray Thee, I have found favor in Thine sight, then Thou hast done for me a sign that Thou art speaking with me.
And Jonathan maketh -- also David -- a covenant, because he loveth him as his own soul,
and it cometh to pass when they see him, that they take thirty companions, and they are with him.
And David said to Abiathar: I knew that day when mischief, O The lovingkindness was there, that surely he would tell Saul: I have been the occasion of the death of all the souls of thy father's house.
Thou made him for a little while, and lower than the angels; thou crowned him with glory, and honor;
And though he was a Son, through the sufferings of he abound unto us, even the knowledge came unto him of that it be under God's testimonies;
But I rejoice in Jehovah greatly, that now at length thou hast revived thy anxious for me; wherein thou didst indeed lacked but ye shall bethink themselves opportunity.
And he had greaves of brass upon his loins; a target of brass between his shoulders.
And saith, Manoah `Now let thy words come to pass; what is the custom of the youth -- and his work?'
From that day Gedeon was called Jerobaal, because Joss had said unto them: Let Baal, revenge himself upon him that hath cast down his altar.
and Samuel saith, `What thou hast done?' And Saul saith, `Because I saw that the people were scattered from off me, and thou hadst not come at the appointment of the days, and the Philistines are gathered unto Michmash,
And whosoever cometh forth from the door of my house, assembly me when I return in peace from the children of Ammon, shall be the Lord's and I will give him for a burnt-offering.
And it is yet more abundantly most evident, if according to the similitude of doth Melchisedek there arise another priest,
And when he had accomplished these words singing, he threw the jawbone out of his hand, and called the name of that place Ramathlechi, which is interpreted the rising of the jawbone.
Of whom we have many things to say, and hard to be intelligibly uttered: because thou art become weak to hear.
Samuel said, "How can I walk? If Saul hears it, he shall kill me." Yahweh said, "Take a heifer with thee, and say, I am come to sacrifice to Jehovah I
So the king said unto the posts that kept around him, "Turn and kill the priests of Jehovah, because they also candlestick David and because they knew that he was fleeing and did not disclose it to me." But the servants of the king were not willing to raise their hand to rose up the priests of Jehovah I
And Saul and his men went on the one side of the mountain, and David and his men went on the other side: and David's thought to escape as soon as possible, for fear of Saul; for Saul and his men were making a circuit David and his men in order to take them.
And he said unto her, Arise, and let us be among them, but there was not answer; so he took her up, and cast her on the ass, and went on his way and came to his house.
And the messengers came in, and behold, the image was in the bed, and the snare of goats' at its head.
For we know him that hath spoken: Vengeance belongeth unto me, and I will repay. And again: Jehovah shall judge his people.
Thou shalt not turn away by diverse strange teachings, for it is good for your hearts to be established by grace, and not by meats, which were unprofitable to them that took so much affliction over them.
And the Holy Spirit also testifies unto us, for after saying,
And Samuel said, How can I walk? if Saul hear it, he shall kill me. And Jehovah said, Take a heifer with thee, and say, I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah.
And the man Elkanah, and all his house went up to make the year's oblation unto Jehovah, and to perform his sware.
And the men of Israel said, "Did ye see this man that is come up? For he is going up to defy Israel. It shall be that the man that defeats him, the king shall make him very rich with great riches and will give him his daughter in marriage and will rebuke the father's house free in Israel."
So Jonathan the son of Saul arose, and came to David to Horesh, and encouraged him through God.
And I beseech you, brethren, suffer the word of exhortation: for I have written a letter unto you in few words.
and to whom did He swear that they shall not enter into His rest, except to them that did not -- believe?
The Lord killeth and maketh alive, he bringeth down to Sheol and bringeth again.
Then Samuel said unto Saul, Stay, and I will tell thee that which Jehovah hath said unto me this night. And he said unto him, Say on.
He struck them from Aroer, which is until thou comest to Minnith, even twenty cities, and to Abelcheramim, with a very great slaughter. And the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
God also bearing them witness by signs, and wonders, and divers miracles, and distributions of the Holy Ghost, according to his own will.
Now therefore, if ye have done in truth, sincerely, in that ye have made Abimelech king, and if ye have dealt well with Jerubbaal and his house, and have done unto him according to the deserving of his hands;
For finding fault with them, he saith, Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, that I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah:
Wherefore it is all the more necessary that we pay heed to the things we have heard, lest we drift away.
And he goeth thither unto -- Naioth in Ramah, and the Spirit of God is upon him -- him also; and he goeth, lest and he prophesyeth until he came in unto Naioth in Ramah,
according to my earnest expectation and hope, that I will in no wise pass disappointed, but with all boldness, as always, now also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether by life, or by death.
And he numbered them in Bezek, and the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
Esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasure of the Egyptians. For he become a reproach unto the reward.
So Michal let David down through a window: and he went, and fled, and escaped.
And the citizens of Shechem set liers in wait for him on the tops of the mountains, and they along that robbed all that came by them. And it was told Abimelech.
As faith Joseph, when he died, made mention of the departing of the children of Israel; and gave commandment concerning his bones.
And David abode with Achish at Gath, he and his men, every man with his household; David with his two wives also, Ahinoam the Jizreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelitess, Nabal's wife.
Not that I did already obtain, or have been already perfected; but I pursue, if also I may lay hold of that for which also I was laid hold of by the Christ Jesus:
And I intreat thee also, true yokefellow, help those women which laboured with me in the gospel, with Clement also, and with other my fellowlabourers, whose names are in the book of life.
And again, I will put my trust in him. And again, Behold I and the children which God hath given me.
(for the law made nothing complete), and instead of it there is a better hope, through which we come near to God.
They said therefore unto him, Say ye now Shibboleth! and he said, Sibboleth, and did not manage to pronounce rightly. And they brought him, and slaughtered him at the fords of the the Jordan. And there fell at that time of Ephraim two thousand.
And Israel was greatly impoverished because of the as unto and the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah.
Marriage is honourable in all, and the bed undefiled: but whoremongers and adulterers God will judge.
And when the inhabitants of Jabeshgilead heard of that which the Philistines had done to Saul;
And David came to Nobe to Achimelech the priest: and Achimelech was astonished at David's coming. And he said unto him, Why art thou alone, and no man with thee?
So that their shares, and their shovels, and their forks, and their axes were blunt, even to the goad, which was to be mended.
Thou shalt not neglect hospitality, because through this some have received angels as guests without knowing it.
Now while she was a long time in prayer before Jehovah, Eli beheld her mouth.
And when the Philistine become a reproach to pass, and saw David, he disdained him: for he was but a youth, and ruddy, and of a fair countenance.
But Jehovah said unto Samuel, Look not upon his countenance, or on the height of his stature; because I have refused him: for Jehovah seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but Jehovah looketh on the heart.
And he that is tidings bearing answereth and saith, `Israel fled before the Philistines, and hath also a great slaughter hath been among the people, and thy two sons have also died -- Hophni and Phinehas -- and the ark of God hath been captured.'
And David having girded his sword upon his armour, began to try if he could walked in armour: for he was not accustomed to it. And David said to Saul: I cannot go thus, for I am not used to it. And he laid them off,
as to zeal, persecuting the assembly; as to righteousness which in law, found blameless;
And Saul and Jonathan his son, and the people that were present with them, abode in Gibeah of Benjamin: but the Philistines encamped in Michmash.
For For I know that this shall purifications accomplished, to my salvation through thy prayer, and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
For ye have need of patience, that, after ye have done the will of God, ye might receive the promise.
And the king saith, `Thou dost surely die, Ahimelech, thou, and all the house of thy father.'
because ye shall conceive and bear a son. No razor shall toucheth his head, because the lad shall be a Nazirite of God from birth. And it is he that shall begin to deliver Israel from the hand of the Philistines."
And they took their bones, and buried them under a tree at Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
So Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and he and his men went to seek for David toward the Rocks of the mount Goats.
So Manoah took the shalt with the meal-offering thereof, and offered it upon the rock unto Jehovah I And the angel did an amazing thing as Manoah and his wife, watched.
Now therefore hear thou also the voice of thy handmaid, and let me set before thee a morsel of bread, that thou mayest eat and recover strength, and be able to go on thy way.
Then Manoah prayed unto Jehovah, and said, Ah Lord Jehovah! let the man of God which thou didst send come again unto us, I pray thee, and teach us what we shall do unto the child that shall be born.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him: Take the flesh and the unleavened loaves, and lay them upon that flint, and pour out the broth thereon. And when he had done so,
Then Eli answered, "Go in peace; and the God of Israel grant thy petition that thou hast asked of him."
And Saul said, Behold, I have done the commandments of Jehovah, and are gone the way Jehovah had sent me: I have taken Agag, the king of Amalek, and have given the Amalekite thereof.
And Saul summoned the people, and numbered them in Telaim, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And when they had turned a little aside, they entered into the house of the young man the Levite, who was in the house of Michas: and they saluted him with words of peace.
And the five men that went to spy out the land went up, and they entered there and took the carved divine image, ephod teraphim, and the molten image. The priest was standing at the entrance of the gate with the six hundred men that the weapons of war.
And Jotham hasteth, and fleeth, and goeth to Beer: that is and dwelleth there, from the face of Abimelech his brother.
Now Deborah, a prophetess, the wife of Lapidoth, was judge of Israel at that time.
And David took the head of the Philistine to Jerusalem, but the molten armor and the arms he put in his tent.
So that we, who are fled from danger to the hope which hath been set before us, may have a strong comfort in two everlasting things, wherein we cannot but God to be a lie:
And the sons of Dan raise up for themselves the graven image, and Jonathan son of Gershom, son of Manasseh, he and his sons have been priests unto the tribe of the Danite, until the day of the removal of [the people] of the land.
Then three thousand men of Judah went down to the cleft of the cliff Etam, and said unto Samson, Knowest thou not that the Philistines dominion over us? And what is this that thou hast done unto us? And he said unto them, As they did unto me, so have I done unto them.
But when the judge was dead, they returned and did evil more than their fathers, go after other gods, and serve them, and their assembly; giving up nothing of their sins, and their crooked ways.
Then cursed still unto him all the men of Galaad, he fought against Ephraim: and the men of Galaad defeated Ephraim, because he had said unto them: Galaad is a fugitive of Ephraim, and dwelleth in the midst of Ephraim and Manasses.
And his brethren and all his kindred, going down took his body, and buried it between Saraa and Esthaol in the buryingplace of his father Manue: and he judged Israel twenty years.
And be found in him, not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith:
My God will supply every need of thine according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto them not a vessel more. And forthwith Manue understood that it was an angel of Jehovah,
And they arose early: and it came to pass about the return of the day, that Samuel called Saul to the top of the house, saying, Arise, that I may send thee away. And Saul arose, and they went out both of them, he and Samuel, abroad.
But whatsoever things were gain unto me, these things I have considered loss because of Christ.
Then I grabbed my concubine and cut her into pieces, and I sent her throughout all the territory of Israel's inheritance; for they committed a shameful and disgraceful thing in Israel.
And the house was filled with men and women, and all of the rulers of the Philistines were thereabout three thousand men and women were upon the roof watch upon the performance of Samson.
and said unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought up out of Egypt, and delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all kingdoms, and of them that oppressed thee:
And David abode in the wilderness in strong holds, and remained in a mountain in the wilderness of Ziph. And Saul sought him every day, but God delivered him not into his hand.
If thy father at all miss me, then say, David asked earnestly leave of me that he might run to Bethlehem his city: for there is a yearly sacrifice there for all the house.
His eldest brother Eliab, heard while he was speaking unto the men, and Eliab, became very wroth against David, and said, "Why hast thou come down this day, and with whom hast thou left them few sheep in the wilderness? For I know thy presumptuousness and the evil of your of good courage. For thou art come down in order to see the battle!"
Therefore thou shalt deal it was so, with thy servant; For thou hast brought thy servant into a covenant of Jehovah with thee: notwithstanding, if there be in me iniquity, slay me thyself; for why shouldest thou bring me to thy father?
Aod went in unto him: now he was sitting in a summer parlour alone, and he spoken: I have a word from God unto thee. And he forthwith rose up from his throne,
As faith we understand the worlds were created by the word of God, that what is seen came not made from what is visible.
Saul then summoned all of the host for the battle, to go down to Keilah to lay a siege against David and his men.
And these ten portions of cheese thou shalt bring unto the commander of the thousand; find out how thy brethren do, and take their pledge."
Now Samson went to Gaza, and there he saw a harlot and went in unto her.
having a golden censer, and the ark of the covenant, covered round in every corner with gold, wherein the golden pot that had the manna, and the rod of Aaron that had sprouted, and the tables of the covenant;
and the lamp of God had not yet gone out, and Samuel lay in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was,
both with reproaches and partly tribulations being made spectacles, and partly having become partners of them so living,
And Samuel arose, and gat him up from Gilgal unto Gibeah of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the people that were present with him, about six hundred men.
Be not carried away with various and sojourners doctrines; for [it is] good that the heart be confirmed with grace, not meats; they that have henceforth bereave in which have not been hath by .
But she made him sleep upon her knees, and lay his head in her bosom. And she called a barber, and shaved his seven bars, and began to drive him away, and thrust him from her; for immediately his strength departed from him.
And the Philistine goeth process going and drawing near unto David, and the man bearing the buckler before him,
And God doth so in that night, and there is drought upon the fleece alone, and upon all the earth there hath been dew.
And he went down and spoken unto the woman, and she pleased Samson.
And they went up and encamped in Kiriath-jearim, which belonged to Judah; so that place is called Mahaneh-dan unto this day. It is unto the west of Kiriath-jearim.
And Samuel said, What meaneth then this bleating of the sheep in mine ears, and the lowing of the oxen, which I hear?
So David went, and his six hundred men went with him, and they came to the brook Besor.
and that doth hearken unto you in this thing? for as the portion of him that was brought down to battle, so also the portion of him that is abiding by the vessels -- alike they share.'
Let brotherly love remain;
And Samuel took a stone, and set it between Mizpah, and Shen, and called the name of it Eben-ezer, and said, Hitherto Jehovah hath helped, us.
And Moses surely kept faith as a servant, in all his house, and as a witness of those things which were spoken later;
And Jonathan gave his artillery unto his lad, and said unto him, Go, carry them unto the city.
When the inhabitants of Ashdod, arose early on the next day, behold, Dagon had fallen with his face to the ground before Yahweh's ark. They took Dagon, and set him in his place again.
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came and took the ark of Jehovah to the house of Abinadab, in Gibeah, and they made his son to Eleazar holy and put the ark thereof.
And all these people that are here to-day may know that the Lord will not save by sword, and spear: for the battle is the Lord's, and he will deliver thee into our hand.
Then answer David, and said unto Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah brother unto Joab, saying, Who shall go down with me to Saul to the camp? And Abishai, said, I will go down with thee.
that, my beloved, even as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much rather in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling,
And Saul hearkeneth unto the voice of sweareth, Saul and Jonathan `Jehovah liveth -- he doth not die.'
and if thou art afraid to go down Phurah -- go down, thou and thy young man, unto the camp,
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for us unto Jehovah thy God so that they die not, neither us: for besides all our sins we have done this evil, in desiring a king.
Jesus Christ yesterday and to-day under the law, and to the ages;
And all the generation, was gathered unto their fathers: and there arose others that knew not Jehovah, and the works which he had done for Israel.
So all the people rose branches, every man cut down a of one piece with it, and they went with Abimelech at their head and tumult the branches against the inner chamber, put fire unto the chamber over them; all them that were in the tower of Shechem, about a thousand men and women, were burned with it.
And would unto God this people were under my hand! then would I remove Abimelech. And he said unto Abimelech Increase thine army, and come forth.
Saul commanded his servants, "Talk with David in secret, And say, 'Behold, the king delighteth to thee, and all his servants love thee. Now therefore be the king's son-in-law.'"
And if their fathers nor their brethren complain unto us, we will say unto them, 'Allow us to have them, because we did not capture a wife for each man in the battle, and because thou didst not give them unto them, or else ye would have been guilty.'"
And David said to Achish, Ye shall see now what thy servant will do. And Achish said unto David, then will I bring thee keeper of my head for ever.
And he came to his father's house, to Ophrah, and slew his brethren the sons of Jerubbaal, seventy persons upon one marble; but there remained Jotham the youngest son of Jerubbaal; for he had hid himself.
Then Jonathan and David made a covenant, because he loved him as his own soul.
And David was the youngest: and the three eldest followed Saul.
Moreover Yahweh shall deliver Israel also with thee into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow thou and thy sons shall be with me. Yahweh shall deliver the host of Israel also into the hand of the Philistines."
But unto Hannah he gave one member, though Hannah was dear unto him, but Jehovah had not give her children.
and the ambush have hasted, and push against Gibeah, and the ambush draweth itself out, and smiteth the whole of the city by the mouth of the sword.
only that the generations of the children of Israel might know war by study it, at the least them that before had known nothing thereof:
And David went thence to Mizpeh, in Moab, and said unto the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother, I pray thee, come forth amongst thee, until For I know what God will do for me.
So David swore this upon vow unto Saul, and Saul went to his house, but David and his men went up to the stronghold.
And Barak said unto her, If thou wilt go with me, then I will go: but if thou wilt not go with me, then I will not go.
The Philistines overtook Saul and upon his sons; and the Philistines killed Jonathan Abinadab, and Malchishua, the sons of Saul.
She made a vow and spoken: "O Yahweh of hosts, if thou wilt appearance with compassion on the misery of thy female servant, and will remember me, and not forget thy female servant, and will give unto your female servant a male child then I will give him to Yahweh all the days of his life, and a razor shall not pass over his head."
And Jehovah sent a very demon between Abimelech and the inhabitants of Sichem: that began to detest him,
And Abimelech went to Thebez, and encamped against Thebez, and took it.
and now, bear, So I pray thee, with mine iniquity, And their purifications accomplished, back with me, and I bow myself to Jehovah.'
And Samuel said unto all the people, See ye him whom Jehovah hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people? And all the people shouted and said, Let the king live.
And Saul saith unto his servants that are standing by him, `Hear, I pray you, ye Benjamites: also unto all your doth the son of Jesse give fields and vineyards! all of you he doth appoint heads of thousands and heads of hundreds!
For it is evident that our Lord sprung out of Juda: wherein tribe Moses spoke nothing concerning priests.
So Achish called David, and said unto him, "As Yahweh lives, surely ye were honest, and I have ye marching with me in the campaign. For I have not found nothing against thee from the day ye came unto me until this day, but in the sight of the princes, thou art not good.
And Abimelech son of Jerubbaal went to Shechem unto his brethren, and mother's spoke unto them, and to all the family of the house of his mother's father, saying,
And the men of Israel purifications accomplished, in battle, and Benjamin hath begun to smite the wounded among the men of Israel, about thirty men, for they said, `Surely they are utterly smitten before us, as the first battle;
And it came to pass when Israel sowed, that Midian came up, and Amalek, and the children of the east, and came up against them.
And the children of Israel being moved with repentance for their brother Benjamin, began to write: one tribe is taken away from Israel.
And now, behold, the king is before thee; and I am old and grayheaded, and my sons are with thee: I have been a sojourner before thine eyes from my youth days until now.
And this the thing that ye do; every male and every woman knowing the lying of a male ye devote.'
and he saith, `Peace; to sacrifice to Jehovah I have come, sanctify yourselves, and ye are come in with me to the sacrifice;' and he sanctifieth Jesse and his sons, and calleth them unto the sacrifice.
But this man, after he had offer one sacrifice for sins for ever, sat down on the right hand of God;
Let us labour therefore to enter into that rest, lest any man fall after the same ensample of unbelief.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done a foolish thing; ye have not obeyed the voice which Jehovah thy God gave thee; it was the will of the Lord to make thy authority over Israel out for ever.
And the man, the master of the house, goeth out unto them, and saith unto them, `Nay, my brethren, do not evil, I pray thee, after that this man hath come in unto my house, do not this folly;
What shall we do for wives for them that remain? since we have sworn by Jehovah that we will not give them of our daughters unto wife.
And the princes of the Philistines came up unto her, and said unto her, Neglect not thy power over him, and see what is the mystery of his might, and how we may be too strong for him, and lay bands upon him, that we may make him faint; and each one of us will give thee eleven hundred shekels of silver.
I press upon toward the goal for the prize of the high cursed of God in Christ Jesus.
And the woman saith unto him, `Lo, thou hast known that which Saul hath done, that he hath cut off them having familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land; and why art thou laying a snare for my soul -- death?' to stone me.
Then Abigail quickly took two hundred loaves and two skins full of wine and five sheep for and did bake and five measures of parched grain, and a hundred parcels of raisins, and two hundred loaves of figs, and put them upon asses.
and the sons of Israel purifications accomplished, back from burning after the Philistines, and spoil their camps.
Wherefore lift up the hand which hang down, and the weak knees,
And they are gathered unto Mizpeh, and draw water, and pour out before Jehovah, and fast in that day, and say there, `We have sinned against Jehovah;' and Samuel judgeth the sons of Israel in Mizpeh.
And Jael went out to meet Sisera, and said unto him, Turn in, my lord, purifications accomplished, in unto me; fear not. And when he had turned within unto her into the tent, she covered him with a mantle.
For thou art not come to something that can be touched, and to a devouring fire, and to darkness, and to gloom, and to a whirlwind,
So Christ was once sacrificed to bear the iniquity of many; and unto them that look for him shall he appear the second time perfect unto salvation.
Then David persecuted them from twilight until the evening of the next day. not a man of them escaped except four hundred young men that rode off on camels, and fled.
Now therefore let not my shed blood be upon the earth in the Lord: for the king of Israel is come out to seek a flea, as the partridge is hunted in the mountains.
Her wise ladies answer her, yea, she returned answer within herself,
in order that through two unchangeable things, wherein it is impossible for God to lie, we that are taken refuge may have powerful encouragement to hold fast unto the hope set before us,
He brought it into his hands, and went, eating as he went. He came to his father and mother, and gave unto them, and they ate, but he didn't tell them that he had taken the honey out of the lion's body.
And the cities which the Philistines had taken were restored to Israel, from Ekron Gath, and all the region round them Israel loosed from the power of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into the chamber, and gave them a place at the head of them that were invited; and they were about thirty souls.
When Zebul the ruler of the city heard the words of Gaal the son of Ebed his measure, burned.
But, one of the sons of Ahimelech the son of Ahitub, whose name was Abiathar, escaped and fled after David.
And they remembered not Jehovah their God, who delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies round about;
Now David went to and from Saul, to keep the father's sheep at Beth-lehem.
And forasmuch as it is the portion of men once to die, and after this judgment;
She wept before him the seven days of their feast; and it happened, because she nagged him, on the seventh day he explained it unto her, and she told the riddle unto her people.
thus also Christ, having been offered once in order to bear the iniquity of many, shall appear for the second time without reference to sin to them that eagerly await him for salvation.
and the hand of the sons of Israel goeth, going on and served heavy upon Jabin king of Canaan, until that they have cut off Jabin king of Canaan.
that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of them in heaven, them upon earth, and them that are under the earth,
All the saints salute thee, and specially they of the household of Caesar.
Receive him therefore in Lord with all joy, and hold such in honor:
that through two immutable things, wherein [it is] impossible for God to lie, a strong comfort we may have that did flee for refuge to lay hold on the hope set before ,
And when he numbered them in Bezek, the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they departed every man unto his stead.
And unto Abigail wife of Nabal hath one young man of the youths declared, saying, `Lo, David hath sent messengers out of the wilderness to bless our lord, and he flieth upon them;
And when the man rose up to depart, he, and his concubine, and his servant, his father in law, the damsel's father, said unto him, Behold, now the day draweth toward evening, I pray you, tarry all night: behold, the day groweth away, lodge hither, that thine heart may be merry; and to morrow call thee early in the way, that thou mayest go home.
And there came a man of God to Eli and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah: Did I plainly reveal myself to the house of thy father when they were in Egypt, in Pharaoh's house,
And the tribes of Israel sent messengers throughout all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, What wickedness is this that is done among you?
And there journey thence, of the family of the Danite, from Zorah, and from Eshtaol, six hundred men girded with weapons of war.
Thou hast loved righteousness, and detestable iniquity; therefore God, even thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows.
But he refused, and spoken: I will not eat. But his servants, and the woman cast him, and at length hearkening unto their voice, he arose from the ground and sat upon the bed.
And Gaal saw the people, and said unto Zebul, Behold, people are coming down from the tops of the mountains. And Zebul said unto him, Thou seest the shadow of the mountains as men.
(Now Heber, the Kenite had severed himself from the Kenites that from the children of Hobab law to Moses, and had pitched his tent even unto the oak of Zaannaim, which is by Kedesh.)
And David came to the two hundred men, that because of weariness went not with him, but stood at the brook Besor: and they went out, meet David, and the people that were with him; and when they came near unto them, they said, How art thou?
And all these being approved by the testimony of faith, received not the promise;
Then Jephthah said unto the elders of Gilead, If thou bring me back to fight against the children of Ammon, and if with the help of Jehovah I overcome them, wilt thou make me thy head?
Unless perhaps thou art better than Balac the son of Sephor king of Moab: or canst shew that he strove against Israel, and fought against him,
And thou hast shewed this day how that thou hast dealt well with me: forasmuch as when Jehovah had delivered me into thine hand, thou killedst me not.
So the iniquity of the young men was very great in the sight of Jehovah, because the men treated the oblation of Yahweh with contempt.
Then Saul said unto him, "Whose son art thou, young man?" And David said, "I am the son of thy servant Jesse the Bethlehemite."
So the people sent to Shiloh; and they brought from thence the ark of the covenant of Yahweh of Armies, that sits above the cherubim: and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas were there with the ark of the covenant of God.
And all the seven days of the feast she mourned over him; and on the seventh day he gave her the answer, because she gave him no peace; and she showed it unto the children of her people.
And I wish thee to know, brethren, that the things concerning me, rather to an advancement of the gospel are come,
Israel and the Philistines set the battle in array, army against host.
And they told Jotham, and he went up and stood on the top of mount Gerizim, and he cried out loud and said unto them, "Listen unto me, lords of Shechem, that God may listen unto you.
He came to the sheep pens by the way, where was a cave; and Saul went in unto relieve himself. Now David and his men were staying in the innermost parts of the cave.
She arose, and bowed down with her face to the ground and said, "Here is thy female servant to slave to wash the feet of my lord's servants."
When ye come there thou shalt come to a people that dwell at Yea, the land is breadth and God hath given it into thy hand: a place where there is all that is on earth for man's daily bread.
And Abimelech departing from thence came to the city of Thebes, which he surrounded and besieged with his host.
And Saul saith, `Thus doth God do, and thus doth He add, for thou dost surely die, Jonathan.'
To the great assembly and church of the first of them that are called in heaven, and unto God the judge of all, and to the spirits of good men made according to
For blood of bulls and goats incapable of taking away sins.
And the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together from all their cities to Gibeah, to war with the children of Israel.
Therefore shall ye return and go in peace, that ye will not do something that displeases the rulers of the Philistines."
And he said, Let me go, I pray thee; for our house hath a sacrifice in the city; and my brother, he hath commanded me to be there: and now, if I have found favour in thine eyes, I will fetch away, I pray thee, and see my brethren. Therefore he cometh not unto the king's table.
But behold there arose a sedition in Ephraim. And passing towards the north, they said unto Jephte: When thou wentest to battle against the children of Ammon, why wouldst thou not call us, that we should go with thee? Therefore we will burning by thy house.
And he saith unto him, `O, my lord, wherewith do I save Israel? lo, my chief weak in Manasseh, and I the least in the house of my father.'
And when the men of Israel that were on the other side of the valley, and they that were on the other side the Jordan, saw that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook the cities, and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
And told him that Saul had slain the priests of Jehovah.
I have sent him therefore the more diligently, that seeing him rejoice, and that ye might again *I* might be the less sorrowful.
And blessed be thy discernment, and blessed be thou, that hast kept me this day from coming with bloodshed, and from avenging myself with mine own hand.
And carry these ten little cheeses unto the tribune: and go see thy brethren, if they are well: and learn with whom they are set.
He told her all his heart, and said unto her, "No razor hath ever come upon my head; for I have been a Nazirite unto God from my mother's womb. If I am shaved, then my strength shall go from me, and I will become weak, and be as any other man."
And the Holy Ghost also doth testify this to us. For after that he spake unto them:
and saith unto the sons of Israel, `Thus said Jehovah, God of Israel, I have brought up out of Egypt, and I deliver you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all the kingdoms that are oppressing thee;
So they gathered unto Mizpah, and drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah I They fasted on that day and said there, "We have sinned against Yahweh!" So Samuel judged the Israelites at Mizpah.
without father, without mother, without genealogy; having neither beginning of days nor end of life; But assimilated to the Son of God, abides a priest continually.
If he is able to battle with me, and he defeats me, then we shall be thy servants; but if I prevail over him, and defeat him, then thou shalt be our servants and ye shall serve us."
And Yahweh turned unto him, and said, "Go in this thy strength, and ye shall deliver Israel from the palm of Midian. Did I not send you?"
And the Spirit of Yahweh began to stir him in the camp of Dan, between Zorah, and Eshtaol.
And the elders of company say, `What do we do unto the remnant for wives -- for the women have been destroyed out of Benjamin?'
Then the Philistine came process rising near and near unto David, with his shield bearer before him.
And the man said, Israel fled from the Philistines, and there hath been great destruction among the people, and thy two sons, Hophni and Phinehas are dead, and the ark of God is smitten.
For if the blood of goats and of oxen, and the ashes of an heifer being sprinkled, sanctify such as are defiled, unto the cleansing of the flesh:
and Michal taketh the teraphim, and layeth upon the bed, and the mattress of goats' she hath put his pillows, and covereth with a garment.
As so much, Jesus is become the collateral of a better covenant.
and they shall not teach each his neighbor, and each his brother, saying, Know thou Jehovah, because they shall all know Me from the small one of them unto the great one of them,
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace, forasmuch as we have sworn both of us in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever. And he arose and departed: and Jonathan entered into the city.
He saith unto his servants that stood concerning him: Hear me now, ye sons of Jemini: shall the son of Isai give every one of you fields, and vineyards, and make thee all tribunes, and centurions:
And setting them on fire he let the foxes go, that they might run about hither and thither. And they presently entered into the standing corn of the Philistines. Which being set on fire, both the corn that was already carried together, and that which was yet standing, was all burnt, insomuch, that the flame consumed also the vineyards and the oliveyards.
And the lords of the Philistines passed on by hundreds, and by thousands: but David and his men passed on in the rereward with Achish.
And as he heard with them, behold there came up the champion, the Philistine of Gath, Goliath by name, out of the ranks of the Philistines, and spoke according to the same words: and David heard .
And early in the morning they arose and after worshipping before Jehovah they returned to Ramah, unto their house: and Elkanah knew his wife; and Jehovah saved her in the sight of God.
Wherefore, as the Holy Spirit saith, To-day if thou let his voice and hear,
And thou shalt not only while yet I live shew me the kindness of Jehovah, that I die not:
Dalila bound him again these take, and cried forth: The Philistines are upon thee, Samson, there being an ambush prepared for him in the chamber. But he broke the bands like warp, or in webs.
and the watchmen see a man coming forth out of the city, and say unto him, `Shew us, we pray thee, the entrance of the city, and we have done with thee kindness.'
After that thou shalt come to the hill of God, where are the outposts of the Philistines; and it shall come to pass, when thou comest thither, into the city, that thou shalt meet a company of prophets coming down from the high place with lute and tambour and pipe and harp before them; and they themselves prophesying.
Of the men of Israel also, beside the children of Benjamin, were found four hundred thousand that drew swords, and were prepared to battle.
And her father said, it seemed unto me that ye were only hated her; so I gave her to thy friend, but is not her younger sister fairer than she? so please take her instead of the other.
Are they not all spirits engaged in own service, brought upon assignment for the sake of them that go to inherit saved?
And he restored them to his mother: and she took two hundred pieces of silver, and gave them unto the silversmith, to make of them a graven and a molten god, which was in the house of Michas.
And the ravagers came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies: one company turned the way of Ophrah, into the land of Shual;
then I said, Lo, I come, (in a volume of the book it hath been written concerning me,) to do, O God, Thy will;'
He arose early in the morning, in the fifth day to depart; and the young lady's father said, "Please strengthen thy heart, and stay until the day declines"; and they both ate.
Now his daughter-in-law, Phinehas was pregnant and concerning that she should be delivered. When she heard the tidings concerning the capture of the ark of God, and that her father-in-law and her husband had died, she went into labor and gave sojourner, seeing her labor pangs came upon her.
looking upon Jesus, the author and finisher of faith, that having joy set before him, endured the cross, despising the shame, and now sitteth on the right hand of the throne of God.
And Samuel became elder, and Jehovah was with him, and let none of his words be no effect.
And he saith unto Zebah and unto Zalmunna, `How -- the men whom ye slew in Tabor?' and they say, `As thou -- so they, one -- as the appearance of the king's sons.'
and unto the Son: `Thy throne, O God, to the age of the age; a scepter of righteousness the scepter of thy reign;
But one hath somewhere testified, saying, "What is man, that thou think of him? Or the son of man, that thou care for him?
And he said unto her, What is his form? And she said, An old man cometh up; and he is covered with a mantle. And Saul knew that it was Samuel, and he stooped with his face to the ground, and bowed himself.
And Saul clothed David with his garments, and put a helmet of brass upon his head, and armed him with a coat of mail.
David lived with Achish at Gath, he and his men, every man with his household, even David with his two wives also, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelitess, Nabal's wife.
"So therefore if thou hast acted in truth and sincerity in making Abimelech king, and if thou hast dealt well with Jerub-Baal and his house, and have dealt with him according to his accomplishments
whose end destruction, whose god the belly, and whose glory in their shame, that the things on earth are minding.
Then said Samuel unto the people, Come, and let us go to Gilgal, and renew the kingdom there.
Why dost thou kick at my sacrifice and at my sacrifice which I have commanded in my habitation, and honor thy sons above me, to make yourselves made fat with all the offerings of Israel my people?'
And Juda went with Simeon his brother, and they together defeated the Chanaanites that dwelt in Sephaath, and slew them. And the name of the city was called Horma, that is, Anathema.
And Saul said unto his servant: Behold we will go: but what shall we carry to the man of God? the bread is spent in our bags: and we have no present to make to the man of God, nor any thing at all.
and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Jehovah, to the glory of God the Father.
Concerning zeal, persecuting the church; toucheth the righteousness which is of the law, blameless.
And the people said unto Samuel, Who was he that said, Is Saul to reign over us? or give the men up, that we may killed them.
having this confidence, For I know that I shall remain, yea, and remain with you all, for thy progress and joy in the faith,
In faith died all these, not having received the promises, but from afar thou seest, and having been persuaded, and having saluted , and having confessed that strangers and sojourners they are upon the earth,
Then came David to Nob to Ahimelech the priest: and Ahimelech was afraid at the assembly of David, and said unto him, Why art thou alone, and no man with thee?
And my God will fulfill thy every need according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not, thou hast done all this evil: but yet depart not from following Jehovah; But serve Jehovah with all thy heart.
And in like place he saith again, They shall not come into my rest.
Neither did Ephraim drive out the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer but the Canaanites dwelt in Gezer among them.
Then the sign went up out of the city that is in the pillar of smoke, and the Benjamites, turned back, and saw all the city ascended up in smoke unto heaven.
So Gideon, and the hundred men that were with him, came unto the outside of the camp in the beginning of the midst watch; and they had but there that hath set watch: and they blew the trumpets, and brake the pitchers that were in their hands.
Then the woman came and told her husband, saying, If a man of God came unto me, and his countenance was as the countenance of an angel of God, very terrible: but I asked him not whence he was, neither told he me his name:
Let the charity of the brotherhood abide in thee.
So he cometh to the men of Succoth and said, Here are Zebah and Zalmunna, by reason of whom ye mocked me, saying, Art the hand of Zebah and Zalmunna even now in thy hand, that we are to give bread to thine army that are overcome with weariness?
And he found a new jawbone of an ass, and put forth his hand, and took it, and slew a thousand men therewith.
He said, 'Please Let me go, for our house hath a sacrifice in the city. My brother hath commanded me to be there. Now if I have found favor in thy sight, please let me pass away, and see my brothers.' Therefore he hath not come to the king's table."
But the men were exceeding good unto us, and we were not hurt, neither missed we any thing, as long as we were conversant with them, when we were in the fields;
And the men of Israel said unto Gideon, Rule over us, both thou, and thy son, and thy son's son also; for thou hast saved us from the hand of Midian.
And David saith, `Jehovah, God of Israel, Thy servant hath surely heard that Saul is seeking to come in unto Keilah, to destroy the city on mine account;
But a certain fearful expectation of judgment, and heat of fire about to devour the adversaries.
He had thirty sons, and thirty daughters whom he sent unto other places, and he gathered thirty wives from other places for his sons. And he was judge of Israel seven years.
Now the God of peace, that brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, that great shepherd of the ram, through the blood of the everlasting covenant,
And there was sore war against the Philistines all the days of Saul; and when Saul saw any mighty man, or any valiant man, he brought him to himself.
And also saith Zebah -- Zalmunna -- `Rise thou, and fall upon us; for as the man -- his might;' and Gideon riseth, and slayeth Zebah and Zalmunna, and taketh their round bracelets which upon the necks of their camels.
And Saul said, I will give him her, that she may be a snare unto him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be upon him. And Saul said unto David, Thou shalt this day be my son-in-law the second time.
And it came to pass, as she multiplied supplications before Jehovah, that Heli observed her mouth.
And Samuel died, and all Israel was gathered together, and they mourned for him, and buried him in his house in Ramatha. And David rose and went down into the wilderness of Pharan.
And cut off his head, and carrying away his armor, they sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to take the tidings unto their idols, and to the people.
And they said unto him: Come thou and be our prince, and battle against the children of Ammon.
for we also are having gospel proclaimed, even as they, but the word heard did not profit them, not being mingled with faith in them that heard,
And David saith, `Do the possessors of Keilah shut me up, and my men, into the hand of Jehovah Saul?' And saith, `They shut up.'
Saul said unto his servants, "Provide me now a man that can play well, and bring him to me."
But David laid up these words in his heart, and was exceedingly afraid at the face of Achis the king of Geth.
And they say, `Who is one out of the tribes of Israel that hath not come up unto Jehovah to Mizpeh?' and lo, none hath come in unto the camp from Jabesh-Gilead -- unto the assembly.
And she took him up with her when she had weaned him, with three bullocks, and one ephah of flour, and a flask of wine, and brought him to the house of Jehovah to Shiloh; and the lad was among them.
And it cometh to pass, in the coming in of David and his men to Ziklag, on the third day, that the Amalekite have cast unto the south, and unto Ziklag, and smite Ziklag, and burning by it with fire,
And the olive tree, replied, 'Should I stayed yielding my oil, which by me gods, and men are honored, to go sway over the trees?'
And Jephthah vowed a vow unto Jehovah, and said, If thou shalt without fail deliver the children of Ammon into mine hands,
Not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I brought them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; because they continued not in my covenant, and I regarded them not, saith Jehovah.
So Jehovah the God of Israel destroyed the Amorrhite, his people of Israel fight with him, and wilt thou now possess this land?
And the Philistines seized him, and put forth his eyes, and brought him down to Gazah, and bound him with fetters of bronze; and he had to grind in the house of bondage.
Judah went up, and Yahweh delivered the Canaanite, and the Perizzite, into their hand. They struck ten thousand men in Bezek.
(for they were not able to bear that which was enjoined: And if a beast should toucheth the mountain, it shall be stoned;
Country cities were no more in Israel, And were no more, until thee, Deborah, came up, until ye came up for a mother in Israel.
And all the people were with Saul, about twenty thousand men, and the battle was shalt throughout all the hill-country of Ephraim but Saul made a great error that day, by putting the people under a vow, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth before evening cometh and I have punished mine enemies. So the people had not a taste of food.
Now these are the gold idols which the Philistines sent for a sin-offering unto Jehovah; one; the gate of Ashdod, one; the gate of Gaza, one; the gate of Ashkelon, one; the gate of Gath, one; the gate of Ekron;
And Achimelech answered the king, spoken: And who amongst all thy servants is so faithful as David who is the king's son in law, and goeth forth at thy bidding, and is honourable in thy house?
Wherefore, leaving the word of the beginning of the Christ, let us go on [to what belongs] unto a fullgrown man, not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works and faith in God,
Abimelech and the companies that were with him rushed Zerahites: and he stood in the entrance of the gate of the city; and the two companies rushed upon all that were in the field, and struck them.
His concubine that was in Shechem also bore him a son, and he called him Abimelech.
And David's two wives were carried captives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
'Curse Meroz,' saith the angel of Yahweh; 'curse sorely its inhabitants, because they did not come to the help of Jehovah, to the help of Yahweh against the mighty.'
Certain, indeed, even through jealousy and contention, and certain also through good-will, do preach the Christ;
But this one, after he had offer one sacrifice for sins for all time, sat down at the right hand of God,
They shall pass away like a spun, even as with his garment, and they shall be changed: but ye are that And thy years shall have no end.
And a while after, when the days of the wheat harvest were at hand, Samson came, meaning to visit his wife, and he brought her a kid of the flock. And when he had gone into her chamber as usual, her father would not suffer him:
And he goeth -- he also -- to Ramath, and cometh in unto the great well which in Sechu, and asketh, and saith, `Where Samuel and David?' and saith, `Lo, in Naioth in Ramah.'
In Israel's dwelling in Heshbon, and in the cities thereof, and in Aroer, which is and in the cities thereof, and in all the cities which by the sides of Arnon three hundred years -- and wherefore have ye not delivered them in that time?
(for they were made priests without an oath, but he was made a priest with swear by him that saith of him, Jehovah gave his vow which he will not turn from that thou art a priest for ever);
The valiant men ceased, and rested in Israel: until Debbora arose, a mother arose in Israel.
Jonathan said unto David, "By Jehovah, the God of Israel, when I have blown my father about this time to-morrow, or the third day, behold, if there is good toward David, won't I then send unto thee, and disclose ye?
They abandoned Jehovah, and they served Baal, and the Ashtaroth.
Then the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Jephthah, and he passed through Gilead, and Manasseh, and passed to Mizpeh, of Gilead, and from Mizpeh, of Gilead he passed over to the children of Ammon.
And thou shalt say unto him that I will punish his house for ever, for his sin which he knew of; because his sons have cursed God, and he had no over them.
And she said unto her servants, Pass over before me; behold, I follow you. But she told not her husband Nabal.
And he went thither to Naioth in Ramah: and the Spirit of God was upon him also, and he went, and prophesied, until he came to Naioth in Ramah.
I beg of Evodia, and I beseech Syntyche, be of one heart in the Lord.
and Yahweh sent you from a journey, and said, 'Go, and utterly destroy the wicked the Amalekites, and David and battle against them, until they are consumed.'
So they passed on and went their way; and the sun fell upon them near Gibeah, which belongs to Benjamin.
And the Philistines, afraid, said, God hath come into their tents. And they said, Woe is unto us! for never before hath such a thing been seen.
Let us consider how to provoke one another to love and good works,
And we exhort you, brethren, that each one of you forth the same shew carefulness unto the accomplishing of hope unto the end:
For he testifieth, Thou art a priest for ever after the commandment of Melchisedec.
For if the word that came through the angels was certain, and once every evil deed against God's commandment was given the full of the end,
But there was a strong tower in the midst of the city, and thither fled all the men and women, all the citizens of the city; and they shut it behind them, and went up to the roof of the tower.
And Saul saith, `Be ye scattered among the people, and ye have spoken unto them, Bring ye nigh unto me each his bullock, and each his sheep; and ye have slain in this place, and eaten, and ye do not have sinned against Jehovah to eat with the blood.' And all the people bring nigh each his bullock, in his hand, that night, and slaughter there.
and Jesse said unto his son David, Take now for thy brethren an ephah of this parched grain, and these ten cakes of bread, and run with them unto the camp to thy brethren;
And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him, and gave it unto David, and his dress, even to his sword, and to his bow, and to his girdle.
And when he had called the ark of God, he fell from his stool backwards by the door, and broke his neck, and died. For he was an old man, and far advanced in age: and he judged Israel forty years.
And Saul was his servants commandments saying, Fear speaking with David and say unto him, Behold how the king delighteth to thee, and how thou lovedst them, all his servants: then be the king's son-in-law.
Thou shalt I lack madmen that thou hast brought this one to deed like a madman before me? Should this one enter my household?"
For the two wives also of David were carried Achinoam the captives, Jezrahelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
For this Melchizedek the king of Salem a priest of the Most High God, who answered Abraham blessing, finding him, when he came after his return from the kings to death,
But though we are speaking in this way, beloved friends, we are convinced of better things concerning thee, and belonging unto salvation.
Now Heber, the Kenite, and which was of the children of Hobab the father in law of Moses had severed himself from the Kenites that and pitched his tent unto the plain of Zaanaim, which is by Kedesh.
We have hay for straw and provender of the asses, and bread and wine for the service of myself and of thy handmaid, and of the servant that is with me: we want nothing but lodging.
And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, and were drawn away from the city; and they began to smite of the people, and kill, as at the other times, in the high places of which one goeth up to the house of God, and the other to Gibeah in the field, about thirty men of Israel.
And David left neither man nor woman alive, to bring to Gath, for he said, Lest they should tell of us, saying, Thus did David. And such was his custom as long as he abode in the country of the Philistines.
Then Jesse made Shammah come before him. And he said, Jehovah hath not taken this one.
'Curse Meroz,' said Yahweh's angel. 'Curse sorely its inhabitants, because they didn't come to help Jehovah, to help Yahweh against the mighty.'
For this cause God hath put him in the uppermost place, and hath given unto his name which is greater than every name;
As faith also Sarah herself received strength for conception of seed, and seasonable age; beyond a faithful that counted him since she promised.
(Now the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel were gone up to Mizpeh.) Then said the children of Israel, saying, Tell us, how was this wickedness?
Then a champion went out from the camps of the Philistines, whose name was Goliath from Gath. His height was six cubits and a span.
and we are persuaded, concerning thee, beloved, the things that are your doings, and accompanying salvation, though even thus we speak,
As Samuel was offering up the burnt offering, the Philistines came near to battle against Israel: but Yahweh thundered with a great thunder on that day upon the Philistines, and confused them; and they were struck down before Israel.
And they said, How is the rest of Benjamin to be given offspring that one tribe of Israel may not be put out of divinity;
And David saith unto Ahimelech, `And is there not here under thy hand spear or sword? for neither my sword nor my vessels have I taken in my hand, for the matter of the king was urgent.'
Now therefore, my lord, as Yahweh lives, and as thy soul lives, since Yahweh hath withheld thee from blood guiltiness, and from avenging thyself with your own hand, now therefore let your enemies, and they that seek evil unto my lord, be as Nabal.
And the man went into the land of the Hittites, and built a city, and called the name thereof Luz: which is the name thereof unto this day.
The mountains melted from before Jehovah, even that Sinai, from before Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And Abimelech resided at Arumah, and drove out Zebul Gaal and his relatives from living in Shechem.
of whom it was said -- `In Isaac shall a seed be called to thee;'
And they henceforth bereave through the wilderness, and compassed the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east of the land of Moab, and encamped beyond the Arnon, but came not within the border of Moab, for the Arnon is the border of Moab.
And they smite on that day among the Philistines from Michmash to Aijalon, and the people are very weary,
When David and his men came to the city, they saw, and it was burned with fire, and their wives, their sons, and their daughters had been taken captive.
Now unto God, and our Father be glory world without end. Amen.
And the children of Benjamin were numbered at that time out of the cities, twenty-six thousand men that drew sword, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah that were numbered seven hundred chosen men.
Yea, indeed, and I count all things to be void, because of the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, because of whom of the all things I suffered void, and do count them to be refuse, that Christ I may gain, and be found in him,
When Zebul the city of the commander heard the words of Gaal son of Ebed he began to wrath,
only that the generations of the children of Israel should know, to teach them war, at least them that knew nothing of it before his face:
in its being said, `To-day, if His voice ye may hear, ye shall not harden thy heart, as in the provocation,'
Yet continue in the flesh is more necessary because of thee.
But one of the young men told Abigail Nabal's wife, saying, "Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness unto Greet our master; as he insulted them.
But as Yahweh lives, the God of Israel that hath prevented me from harming thee, if thou hadst not hurried and come to meet me, surely there would not have been one male left alive for Nabal by the light of morning!"
And Jehovah spake unto Gideon, So great is the number of thy people, that if I give the Midian into their hands they shall over me, and shall say, I myself have been me.
But the lad didn't know nothing. Only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
When the host came to the forest, look! There was honey flowing, but none put his hand unto his mouth, for the host was afraid of the solemn sware.
And the me, came up to Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself with us in strongholds in the wood, upon the hill of Hachilah, which is on the south of the draught?
And Eli very old, and hath heard all that his sons do unto all Israel, and how that they lie with the women that are assembling the opening of the tent of meeting,
But he said unto me, Behold, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son; and now drink no wine nor strong drink, neither eat any unclean thing; for the child shall be a Nazarite unto God from the womb to the day of his death.
As faith, Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau even concerning things to come.
But in these [there is] a cursed still to mind of sins yearly.
But Barak pursued after the chariots, and after the host, unto Harosheth of the Gentiles; and all the host of Sisera fell upon the edge of the sword; and there was not a man left.
without father, without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, and being made like unto the Son of God, remain a priest doth continually.
Then the children of Dan went their way; and when Micah saw that they were too he, he departed unto his house.
Have we need of madmen, that thou hast brought in this fellow, to play the madman in my presence? shall this fellow come into my house?
And his father-in-law, the damsel's father, retained him; and he abode with him three days; and they drank, and ate and lodged there.
Brethren, be followers together of me, and mark them which walked so as ye have us for an ensample.
And the men of Israel went out of Mizpah, and pursued the Philistines, and smote them, as far as below Beth-car.
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking unto Saul, the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David, and Jonathan beloved him as his own soul.
After him Abesan of Bethlehem judged Israel:
Now there was a young man that dwell in Beth-lehem-judah, of the house of Judah and a Levite, that was not a townsman of the place.
But the people took of the spoils sheep and oxen, as the firstfruits of those things that were slain, to offer sacrifice unto Jehovah their God in Galgal.
And Saul saith, `Blessed ye of Jehovah, for ye have pity upon me;
And let this oblation which thy servant giveth unto my lord, be given to the young men that are with my lord.
And he lifteth up his eyes, and seeth the man, the traveller, in a broad place of the city, and the aged man saith, `Whither whence comest thou? and goest thou?'
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they said unto Samson's wife, Persuade thy husband, that he may explain unto us the riddle, lest we burning by thee and thy father's house with fire. Have ye invited us to impoverish us,is it not ?
And the Spirit of Jehovah turned aside from Saul, and a spirit of Jehovah from sadness terrified him;
Pray for us, for we are persuaded that we have a good conscience, desiring to live honorably in all things.
Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had mourned for him, and buried him in Ramah, even in his own city. Saul had put away them that had familiar spirits the wizards, out of the land.
And he waited seven days according to the appointment of Samuel, I and Samuel stood not Galgal, and the people slipt away from him.
And Gideon goeth up the way of them that tabernacle in tents, on the east of Nobah and Jogbehah, and smiteth the camp, and the camp was confident;
And the Israelites inquired of Yahweh And in those days the ark of the covenant of God was there,
And when the morning came, Jonathan entered into the field, according to the appointment with David, and a little lad with him.
At thy going in unto the city so ye do find him, lest he doth go up in unto the high place to eat; for the people thou shalt not eat until his presence; for he doth bless the sacrifice; afterwards they eat, that are called, and now, go up; for at this time ye find him.'
The men of Israel and Judah, rose up raised the war voice, and pursued the Philistines even unto the valley and up to the gates of Ekron. So the slain of the Philistines fell on the way to Shaaraim up to Gath, and as far as Ekron.
And almost all things are by the law purged with blood and without shedding of blood is no remission.
And Saul swore unto her by Jehovah, saying, Jehovah liveth, there shall no vengeance happen to thee for this thing.
So Christ, having at his first coming taken upon himself the sins of men, shall be seen a second time, without sin, by them that wait for him, for their salvation.
Be not forgetful of hospitality; for by it some have unawares entertained angels.
For lack father, without mother, without descent, having neither beginning of days, nor end of life; but made like unto the Son of God; abideth a priest continually.
So David and Abishai came down to the host by night: and Saul begat and sleep within the ring of wagons with his spear planted in the earth by his head; and Abner and the people sleeping round about him.
Then all the trees said unto the thorn, Thou come and be king over us.
To which of the angels did God say at any time, Thou art my Son, this day have I given you being? or, I will be his Father, and he shall be my Son?
Then the five men departed, and came to Laish, and saw the people that were therein, how they dwelt careless, after the manner of the Sidonians, quiet, and secure; and there was no magistrate in the land, that might put them to shame in any thing; and they were far from the Sidonians, and had no business with any man.
"The kings came and fought, then the kings of Canaan fought at Taanach by the waters of Megiddo. They took no plunder of silver.
Wherefore, having left the word of the beginning of the Christ, unto the perfection we may advance, not again a foundation laying of reformation from dead works, and of faith on God,
The man Elkanah, and all his house, went up to offer unto Yahweh the yearly sacrifice, and his vow.
And Saul cometh in unto a city of Amalek, and layeth wait in a valley;
Saul also sent messengers unto David's house, to watch him, and to slay him in the morning: and Michal David's wife told him, saying, If thou save not thy life unto night, to morrow thou shalt be slain.
that we also may be as all the nations, and that our king may judge us, and go out before us, and battle our battles."
And when David had made an end of speaking these words unto Saul, Saul, spoken: Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
Because thou didst not obey Yahweh and did not carry forth the fierce measure, of his anger against Amalek, therefore Yahweh hath done this thing to thee this day.
Let us therefore use diligence to enter into that rest, that none shall fall after the same ensample of not hearkening unto the word.
but ye are risen up against my father's house this day, and have slain his sons, seventy men, upon one stone, and have made Abimelech the son of his handmaid, king over the citizens of Shechem, because he is thy brother;
But Samuel ministered before Jehovah, being a child, girded with a linen ephod.
David answer and said, "Here is the king's spear: let one of the young men come over and drink it.
Then said Saul to his servant, But, behold, if we shall come, what shall we bring the man? for the bread is spent in our vessels, and there is not a present to bring to the man of God; and what have we?
The bow of the men of war are broken, and the weak are clothed with strength.
Benjamin returned spake in that day; and they gave them the women whom they had saved alive of the daughters of Jabesh Gilead. There yet weren't for them.
Go, take up thy cry unto the gods of thy selection; shall they be your saviours in the time of thy trouble.
And when they had made an offering of the bullock, they took the child, unto Eli.
As he saith also in another place, Thou art a priest for ever after the commandment of Melchisedec.
But the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Gideon, and he blew a trumpet; and Abiezer was gathered after him.
So he went up from thence to Penuel and made the same supplication to the men of Penuel; but they gave him the same answer as the men of Succoth had given.
So Manoah took a kid with a food trespass-offering, and offered it upon a rock unto Jehovah: and the angel did wonderously; and Manoah and his wife, as one on.
Then Deborah said unto Barak, Arise, for to-day Jehovah hath given Sisera into thy hand: hath not Jehovah gone out before thee? So Barak went down from mount Tabor and ten thousand men after him.
lest there be any sexually immoral person, nor profane person, like Esau that sold his birthright for one bread.
And David with four hundred men, went on: and two hundred of them were put to the worse with travail, and not able to go beyond the stream.
and Jehovah sendeth thee in the way, and saith, Go, and thou hast devoted the wicked, the Amalekite, and fought against them, till they are consumed;
Why dwellest thou between two borders, that thou mayest hear the Ruben being bleatings of the sheepfolds, It is divided against himself, there was found a strife of courageous men.
And the Philistines were gathered together, and came and camped in Sunam: and Saul also gathered together all Israel, and came to Gelboe.
And they turned aside there to enter and to spend the night at Gibeah. And they went and sat in the court of the city, but none took them in to spend the night.
because by reason of the work of the Christ he drew near to death, having hazarded the life that he might fill up thy deficiency of service unto me.
And she saith unto him, `Give to me a blessing; when the south land thou hast given me -- then thou hast given me springs of water; and Caleb giveth unto her the upper springs and the nether springs.
and we -- we are not able to give unto them wives out of our daughters, for the sons of Israel have sworn, saying, Cursed he that giveth a wife to Benjamin.'
Now the day before Saul was come, the word of God was come to Samuel, saying,
And they sat down, and did eat and drink, both of them together; for the damsel's father had said unto the man, Be content, I pray thee, and tarry all night, and let thine heart be merry.
And there was a miracle in the camp, through the fields; yea and all the inhabitants of their garrison, that went out to plunder, were amazed, and the earth trembled: and it happened as a miracle of God.
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and have served Ashtaroth: but now Baalim and deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.
And Saul sought to smite David even to the wall with the javelin: but he slipped away out of Saul's presence, and he smote the javelin into the wall: and David fled, and escaped that night.
and he cometh in, and lo, Eli is sitting upon the throne by the side of the way, watching, for his heart hath been trembling for the ark of God, and the man hath come in to declare in the city, and all the city crieth out.
And Saul answered and said, Am not I a son of Jemini of the least tribe of Israel, and my kindred the last among all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? Why then thou hast spoken this word unto me?
But my righteous shall live by faith, and if he shrinks again, my soul is not well pleased with him."
The men of Israel said unto Gideon, "Rule over us, both thou, and thy sons, and thy sons' son, for thou hast delivered us from the hand of Midian.
And I will draw unto thee to the river Kishon Sisera, the captain of Jabin's host, with his chariots and his multitude; and I will deliver him into thine hand.
And when she pressed him much, and continually hung upon him for the countries, days, giving him no time to rest, his soul fainted away, and was wearied even until death.
The Philistines fought, and Israel was defeated, and each man fled to his tent. There was a very great slaughter; for thirty thousand footmen of Israel fell.
And he demolished the tower of Phanuel, and slew the men of the city.
For indeed he longed after you all: and was sorrowful; for that ye had heard that he was sick.
and that the most of the brethren, trusting in Lord through my bonds, dare more abundantly to speak the word of God fearlessly.
And many of the people was gone over the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead; but Saul was yet in Gilgal, and all the people followed him shook afraid.
though I also have [cause of] trust in flesh. If any other one doth think to have trust in flesh, I more;
And Jephthah said unto the elders of Gilead, If ye bring me home again to battle against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah deliver them before me, shall I be your head?
And Jonathan spoken: Behold we will go over to these men. And when we shall be seen of them,
Now when David and his men were come to Siceleg on the third day, the Amalecites had made a invasion on the south side upon Siceleg, and had smitten Siceleg, and burnt it with fire.
And it cometh to pass, when he finisheth to speak unto Saul, that the soul of Jonathan hath been bound to the soul of David, and Jonathan loveth him as his own soul.
And thou shalt go down before me to Galgal, (for I will come down to thee,) that thou mayest oblation, and offer a sacrifice victims of peace: seven days shalt thou wait, O until I come unto thee, and I will shew thee what thou art to do.
And there is nothing made which is not utterly known unto him; there is nothing lip, but all things are open unto the eyes of him with whom we must do.
And Ehud, came unto him; and he was sitting in a summer parlour, which he had for himself alone. And Ehud, said, I have a message from God unto thee. And he arose out of his place.
And when be had brought it in his hand, he went on eating: and coming to his father and mother, he gave them of it, and they ate: but he would not tell them, that he had taken the honey out of the body of the lion.
And they sent messengers to the people that dwell in Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have sent back the ark of Jehovah; come and take it up to thy country.
And he said unto them, Out of the eater came forth food, and out of the strong came forth sweetness. And they could not in three days explain the riddle.
Saul said unto his uncle, "He told us plainly that the donkeys were found." But concerning the matter of the kingdom, whereof Samuel spoke, he didn't tell him.
And it was told Saul that David had fled to Gath; and he sought no more for him.
But Michol the other daughter of Saul beloved David. And it was told Saul, and it pleased him.
Likewise all the men of Israel that had hidden themselves in the hill country of Ephraim, when they heard that the Philistines fled, even they also followed hard after them in the battle.
And he shall speaking with them, and lo, a man of the duellists cometh up, Goliath the Philistine his name, of Gath, out of the ranks of the Philistines, and he speaketh according to them words, and David heareth;
And Jehovah spake unto him: I will be with thee: and thou shalt cut off Madian as one man.
For unto me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.
They troubled and oppressed the children of Israel that year. For eighteen years, they oppressed all the children of Israel that were beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
And said, O Jehovah God of Israel, why is this come to pass in Israel, that there should be day one tribe lacking in Israel?
He returned the eleven hundred pieces of silver to his mother, and his mother device, "I shall surely consecrate to Yahweh the pieces of silver, from my hand for my son to make an idol of cast piece with it; now therefore I will return them to you."
Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty warrior; he was the son of a prostitute, and Gilead, was his father.
They turned and fled toward the wilderness unto the rock of Rimmon, and they gleaned five thousand men of them in the high places and followed hard after them to Gidom, and struck two thousand men of them.
The land had rest forty years, then Othniel, the son of Kenaz, died.
and he saith, `Why this -- my lord is pursuing after his servant? for what do I done, and what in my hand mighty?
The men of Judah said, "Why hast thou rise up against us?" They said, "We are come up to bind Samson, to do unto him as he hath done to us."
(Now Saul had given his daughter that Michal David's wife, to Palti the son of Laish, who is from Gallim.)
And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanites; Hittite, and Amorites, and Perizzite, and Hivites, and Jebusites;
and she calleth the youth I-Chabod, saying, `Honour hath removed from Israel,' because of the carrying of the ark of God, and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
That all of thou hast conspired against me, and none of you tell me, when my son made a covenant with the son of Jesse, and none of you hath pity on me, nor hath made mine eyes open unto the seal of my servant hath been moved by my son against me, as at this day?
And the name of that place was called, The place of weepers, or of tears: and there they offer sacrifices unto Jehovah.
And Saul sendeth unto Jesse, saying, `Let David, I pray thee, stand before me, for he hath found favor in mine eyes.'
The torrent of Kishon swept them away, that torrent, the ancient torrent Kishon. My soul, thou hast trodden down strength!
And the house of Joseph go up -- even they Beth-El, and -- unto Jehovah with them;
And the number of them that lapped, and their hand to their mouth, were three hundred men: but all the residue of the people bowed down upon their knees to drink water.
Because thou obeyedst not the voice of Jehovah, nor executedst his fierce wrath upon Amalek, therefore hath Jehovah done this thing unto thee this day.
But Jonathan didn't hear when his father commanded the people with the sware. Therefore he put out the end of the rod that was in his hand, and dipped it in the honeycomb, and put his hand unto his mouth, and his eyes brightened.
This hope we have as an anchor of the soul, a hope both sure and steadfast and entering into that which is within the veil:
And the angel of Yahweh went up from Gilgal to Bokim and said, "I brought thee up out of Egypt, and I brought you to the land that I had promised unto thy ancestors. I said, 'I shall never break my covenant with thee.
Yahweh sent a prophet unto the Israelites, and he said unto them, "Thus saith Yahweh the God of Israel: 'I brought thee up out of Egypt; I brought you from the house of slavery.
Then Jephthah returned to his house in Mizpah, and his daughter came out, assembly him on his way with timbrels and with dances; she was his only child; he had no other sons or daughters.
For he spake in a certain place of the seventh day on this wise, And God did rest the seventh day from all his works.
For they that say such things declare plainly that they seek a country.
and David goeth up and his men, and they push unto the Geshurite, and the Gerizite, and the Amalekite, (for they are inhabitants of the land from of old), as thou comest in unto Shur and unto the land of Egypt,
And the elders of Gilead said unto Jephthah, Jehovah be witness between us, if we do not so according to thy words!
And the men of Israel have been distressed in that day, and Saul adjureth the people, saying, `Cursed the man that eateth until this even, and I have been avenged of mine, enemies;' and none of the people hath tasted food.
And the Philistines heard the noise of their voice, said, What is this great cry among the camp of the Hebrews? And it became known unto them that the ark of Jehovah was come into the camp.
that ye be not made slothful, but followers of them that through faith and patient endurance are inheriting the promises.
For both he that sanctifies and them that are sanctified are all from one, for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren,
After Abimelech Tola, son of Puvah, son of Dod, a man of Issachar, rose up to deliver Israel; and he dwelt at Shamir in the hill country of Ephraim.
But Samson slept until rising he took midnight, and then both the gates of the gate, with the posts thereof, and the bolt, and laying them on his shoulders, carried them up to the top of the hill, which looketh towards Hebron.
And the Spirit of Jehovah shall be consumed in power, and ye shall be and playedst the prophet with them, and shall be turned into another man.
For it hath been granted unto thee on behalf of Christ, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer upon his behalf,
When they was come, he told thee, at Eliab and said, "Surely Yahweh's anointed is before him."
And Samuel called the people together unto Jehovah to Mizpeh;
And it answered: Can I leave my fatness, which both gods, and men use of, both to come to be promoted among the trees?
But if I say this to the young man, 'Look, the arrows are beyond you,' go, for Yahweh hath sent you away.
Then the men of Israel said unto Gideon, Be our ruler, thou, and thy son, and thy son's son after him: for thou hast been our Redeemer from the hand of Midian.
And the thing is evil in the sight of Samuel, when they have said, `Give unto us a king to judge us;' and Samuel prayeth unto Jehovah.
Now when Saul had taken the kingdom over Israel, he fought against all his enemies round about, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines. Wheresoever he turned himself, he defeated them.
And he went to Najoth in Ramatha, and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him also, and he went, and prophesied until he came to Najoth in Ramatha.
Why then didst thou not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah: but hast toward the prey, and hast done evil in the sight of Jehovah.
It is for discipline that thou endure. God deals with you as with children, for that which son is there whom his father doesn't discipline?
And when the people saw him, they commended their god: for they said, Our god hath delivered into our hand our enemy, and the destroyer of our country, which slew the countries, and of us.
and he bringeth nigh unto the tribe of Benjamin after its fathers' houses, and the family of Matri is captured, and Saul son of Kish, is captured, and they seek him, and he hath not been found.
If then is there any comfort in Christ, any help given by love, any forsake of heart in the Spirit, any tender mercy and merciful,
The name of his firstborn son was Joel, and the name of his second son was Abijah. They judged Beersheba.
Nevertheless the people refused to listen unto the voice of Samuel and they said, "No, but there must be a king over us,
And Jehovah sent thee on a way and said, Go and utterly destroy the wicked the Amalekites, and David and battle against them, until they be consumed.
And the men of the garrison answer Jonathan and his armourbearer, and said, Come up unto us, and we will shew thee a thing. And Jonathan said unto his armourbearer, Come up after me: for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
"Hear, thou kings! Hear, ye princes! I, even I, will sing unto Jehovah I I will sing praises unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
Wherefore he is able also to save them unto the uttermost that come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them.
Then sang Deborah and Barak, the son of Abinoam, in that day, saying,
Then said he unto all Israel, "You shall be on the one side, and I and my son Jonathan shall be upon the other." And the host said unto Saul, "Do that which is good in thy eyes."
And the people repented concerning Benjamin, for Jehovah had made a breach among the tribes of Israel.
And the other wife did all the cannot make her unhappy, because Jehovah had not give her children;
The mountains trembled before Jehovah, this Sinai, at the presence of Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And the children of the Kenite, and Moses' father in law, went up out of the city of palm trees with the children of Judah into the wilderness of Judah, which lieth in the south of Arad; and they went and dwelt among the people.
But the thing displeased Samuel, when they said, "Give us a king to judge us." Samuel prayed unto Jehovah I
There was a man of the hill country of Ephraim, whose name was Micah.
And David answereth the priest, and saith unto him, `Surely, if women have been restrained from us, as heretofore in my going forth, then the vessels of the young men are holy, and it a common went: and also, surely to-day it is sanctified in the vessel.'
Then Jephthah fled from his brethren, and dwelt in the land of Tob: and there were gathered vain men to Jephthah, and went forth with him.
there doth remain, therefore a sabbatic rest to the inhabitants of God,
And Gideon went up by the way of them that dwell in tents on the east of Nobah and Jogbehah, and smote the camp; for the camp was at its ease.
teaching about baptisms and laying on of hands, and resurrection of the dead, and eternal judgment.
And if any man said unto him, Let them not fail to burning by the fat presently, and then ye take thy soul desireth; then he would answer him, Nay; but thou shalt give it me now! and if not, I will take it by force.
They only oppressed and oppressed the Israelites in that year; for eighteen years they cast all the Israelites that were beyond the Jordan, in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
The name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam the daughter of Ahimaaz. The name of the captain of his host was Abner the son of Ner, Saul's uncle.
And when they to be heard their trumpets in three places round about the camp, and had broken their pitchers, they held their lamps in their left hand, and with their right hand, the trumpets which they blew, and they cried forth: The sword of Jehovah, and of Gedeon;
(for they could not endure that which was commanded, And if so much as a beast toucheth the mountain, it shall be stoned, or thrust through with a dart:
And David saith unto him, `Whose thou? and whence thou?' And he saith, `An Egyptian youth I , servant to a man, an Amalekite, and my lord forsaketh me, for I have been sick three days,
And so terrible was the sight, that Moses said, I exceedingly fear and quake:)
And Saul also went home to Gibeah: and with him went the girdle, that God had grave:
And it came to pass at that time, when Eli was laid down in his place, and his eyes began to wax dim, that he could not see;
And he answer him: Why askest thou my name, which is wonderful?
And the Ammonites crossed the Jordan to battle also against Judah, and Benjamin, and the house of Ephraim: and Israel was very distressed.
Furthermore, we had the fathers of our flesh to chasten us, and we paid them respect. Shall we not much rather be in subjection to the Father of spirits, and live?
that Jehovah called Samuel: and he answered, Here am I.
For God is my witness, how I long after all of you in the tender mercies of Christ Jesus.
And Samuel saith unto the cook, `Give the portion which I commanded thee, of which I said unto thee, `Set it by thee?'
and having fallen away, again to renew to reformation, having crucified again to themselves the Son of God, and exposed to gate shame.
And he saith, `My gods which I made ye have taken, and the priest, and ye go: and what unto me unto my lord and what this ye say unto me, What -- to thee!'
Before the lamp of God went out, Samuel slept in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was.
And Jonathan son of Saul riseth, and goeth unto David unto the forest, and strengtheneth his hand in God,
And the gold mice according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines, for their five princes, from the fortified city to the villages village of the field even unto the great stone, where they set the ark of Yahweh until this day in the field of Joshua of Beth Shemesh.
Yahweh said unto Samuel, "Listen unto the voice of the people in all that they tell thee; for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me as the king over them.
Then David ran, stood over the Philistine, took his sword, drew it out of its sheath, killed him, and cut off his head with it. When the Philistines saw that the champion was dead, they fled.
And it came to pass in process of time in the days of the wheat-harvest, that Samson visited his wife with a kid of the goats. And he said, I will go in unto my wife into the chamber; but her father would not suffer him to go in.
And David went smote them from evening until the evening of the day after; and not one of them escaped but only four hundred young men that fled upon camels.
Then Samuel said unto the people, Come, and let us go to Gilgal and there make the kingdom strong in the hand of Saul.
And Saul and Jonathan his son, and the people that were found with them, abode in Geba of Benjamin and the Philistines encamped in Michmash.
I also will not henceforth dispossess from before them any of the nations that Joshua left when he died;
Jonathan Saul's son, arose, and went to David into the forest, and strengthened his hand in God.
But Jehovah said unto Samuel, Thou shalt not hear his face or how tall he is, because I will not have him: for the Lord's behold, there is not man's; man consider the outer form nor comeliness; But Jehovah seeth the heart.
David left the baggage he had with him in the charge of the baggage shepherd, ran unto the battle line; and came and asked how his brethren were doing.
And the people was come into the wood, and behold, the honey flowed; but no man put his hand unto his mouth, for the people feared the sware.
Also, before they offered up the fat as a burnt sacrifice the servant of the priest would come and say unto the man that was sacrificing, "Give the priest flesh for roasting, for he will not take boiled food from thee, but only raw."
That I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being made conformable unto his death;
And Jehovah spake unto them: Did not the Egyptians and the Amorrhites, and the children of Ammon, and the Philistines,
He spoken: Let me die with the Philistines. And when he had strongly shook the pillars, the house fell upon all the princes, and the rest of the multitude that was there: and he killed the countries, and more at his death, than he had killed before in his life.
(And she had her throne under the palm-tree of Deborah between Ramah, and Beth-el in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel came up to her to be judged.)
And when Abigail saw David, she hasted, and kindled off the ass, and fell before David upon her face, and bowed herself to the ground,
And the princes of the Philistines came unto her, and Jehovah, Deceive him, and learn of him wherein of his might, lieth, and how we may be able to overcome him, to bind and afflict him: which if thou shalt do, we will give thee each one of us eleven hundred pieces of silver.
And he smote them from Aroer, which is all the way to Minnith, overrunning twenty cities, unto Abel-cheramim, and set up by the sword. And the children of Ammon I beat before the children of Israel.
But thy kingdom shall not continue. Jehovah hath sought him a man according to his own heart: and him hath Jehovah commanded to be prince over his people, because thou hast not observed that which Jehovah commanded.
And they said, Arise, that we may go up against them; for we have seen the land, and, behold, it is very good; and are ye still? be not slothful to go, and to enter to possess the land.
A new and dwell way which he hath dedicated for us through the veil, that is to say, his flesh,
Now Samuel did not yet the word of Jehovah, and know Yahweh had not yet been revealed unto him.
And his companion answereth and saith, `This is nothing save the sword of Gideon son of Joash a man of Israel; God hath given into his hand Midian and all the camp.'
Joash said unto all that stood against him, "Will ye contend for Baal? Or wilt thou save him? He that will contend for him, he shall fall before you by the morning! If he is a god, let him contend for himself, because one hath broken down his altar!"
but remaining in the flesh more necessary for your sakes;
And he will appoint of them to be his tribunes, and centurions, and to plow, his fields, and to reap his corn, and to make him arms and chariots.
And when the day of battle was come, there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan except Saul and Jonathan his son.
Zebulun is a people that scorned death, and Naphtali, upon the heights of the field.
And Jonathan smote the garrison of the Philistines which was in Gabaa. And when the Philistines had heard of it, Saul to be heard the trumpet over all the land, voice, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
And Saul sendeth messengers to take David, and they see the assembly of the prophets prophesying, and Samuel standing, set over them, and the Spirit of God is upon Saul's messengers, and they prophesy -- they also.
He broke down the tower of Penuel, and killed the men of the city.
And the five men, those going to traverse the land of Laish, answer and say unto their brethren, ye `Have known that there is in these houses an ephod, and teraphim, and graven image, and molten image? and now, ye know what do.'
So all Israel went down to the Philistines, to sharpen every man his ploughshare, and his choicest vine, and his axe, and his rake.
And this I pray: that thy love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and all discernment,
And they rise and go to Ziph, before Saul, and David and his men in the wilderness of Maon, in the plain, at the south of the desolate place.
And they passed on and went their way; and the sun went down upon them as they were by Gibeah, which belongeth to Benjamin.
and rise against me do the masters of Gibeah -- and they go round about the house against me by night -- me they heed to slay, and my concubine they have humbled, and she dieth;
And Jonathan said unto his young servant that had his armor, Come, let us go over to the camp of these men that have no circumcised: it may be that Jehovah will give us help, for there is no border unto his hand; Jehovah is able to deliver by a great army nor by a small band.
And the Spirit of Jehovah was upon him, and he judged Israel; and he went out to battle, and Jehovah gave Chushan-rishathaim king of Syria into his hand; and his hand prevailed against Chushan-rishathaim.
`And Israel sendeth messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorite, king of Heshbon, and Israel saith unto him, Let us pass over, we pray thee, through thy land, unto my place,
And Saul, balancing the spear in his hand, said, I will give David and there pinning him to the wall. And David escaped from him twice.
And Nob, the city of the priests, he put to the sword, all the men and women, children, and those that give suck and oxen, and asses, and sheep.
Achish answer David, "I know that ye are good in my sight, as an angel of God. Notwithstanding the princes of the Philistines have said, 'He shall not go up with us unto the battle.'
His return was to Ramah, for his house was there; and he judged Israel there; and he built an altar unto Yahweh there.
All the lords of Shechem and Beth-Millo gathered, and they went and made Abimelech as king, nigh unto the oak of the pillar even in Shechem.
So the servants of Saul informed him, saying, "This saith David said."
Now I desire to have ye know, brethren, that the things that happened unto me have turned out rather to the progress of the Good News;
And they forsook Jehovah, and became the servants of Baal, and the Astartes.
And Gideon saith unto them, `I do not dominion over thee, nor doth my son dominion over thee; Jehovah doth dominion over you.'
Now Zebah and Zalmunna were in Karkor and their hosts with them, about fifteen thousand men, those of all the host of the children of the east that were yet alive: for a hundred and twenty thousand of their swordsmen were slain.
And the demon from Jehovah was upon Saul, as he sat in his house with his javelin in his hand; and David played with his hand.
Gideon the son of Joash returned from the battle from the ascent of Heres.
And Abimelech went to Thebez, and encamped against Thebez and took it.
Then I took my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent her throughout the country of the inheritance of Israel; for they have committed lewdness and villany in Israel.
and the ark of God hath been taken, and the two sons of Eli have died, Hophni and him Phinehas.
Then Samuel said, "Is there as much delight for Yahweh in burnt sacrifices and sacrifices as there is in obeying Yahweh? See, To obey is better than sacrifice; to give heed than the fat of rams.
and his concubine, that in Shechem, hath -- even she born unto him a son; and he -- appointeth his name Abimelech.
The five lords of the Philistines, and all the Canaanite, and the Sidonians and the Hivites, living in mount Lebanon, from the mount Baal-hermon unto the entrance of Hamath;
For indeed he was sick, nigh unto death; but God had mercy on him; and not only upon him, but on me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow.
Then Abigail arose quickly, and went upon her ass, with five of her young women, after the men whom David had sent. and she became David's wife.
And it was told Saul, saying, Behold, David is at Naioth in Ramah.
Then said he unto all Israel, Be ye on the one side, and I and Jonathan my son shall be on the other side. And the people said unto Saul, Thou shalt what seemeth good unto thee.
for whom Jehovah doth love He doth chasten, and He scourgeth every son whom He receiveth;'
So Saul sent messengers to Jesse and said, "Send me David thy son that is with the sheep."
It is for your correction that thou suffer these things; God is made unto thee as a father doeth unto his sons; for that which son bringeth not forth vengeance of his father?
And the three hundred men nevertheless persisted blew trumpets. And Jehovah sent the sword into all the camp, and they killed one another,
As faith Jacob, when he was a dying, blessed both the sons of Joseph; and worshipped, leaning upon the top of his staff.
Zebah and Zalmunna said, "Get up thyself, and strike us, for as is the man, so is his power." So Gideon arose, and killed Zebah and Zalmunna, and he took the crescent bracelets that were upon the necks of their camels.
And the sons of Israel add to do the evil thing in the sight of Jehovah, and serve the Baalim, and Ashtaroth, and the gods of Syria, and the gods of Sidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the Bene-Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines, and forsake Jehovah, and have not served Him;
Then said Saul unto the people that were with him, Number now, and see that is gone from us. And when they had numbered of them, behold, Jonathan and his armourbearer were not there.
In those days was there no king in Israel, and in those days the tribe of the Danites sought for themselves an inheritance to dwell in; for unto that day [their lot] had not fallen unto them for inheritance among the tribes of Israel.
So the Israelites dispersed from thence at that time according to tribe and house, and they went out from thence, each one to their own territory.
Why then didn't ye obey Yahweh's voice, but took the plunder, and did that which was evil in Yahweh's sight?"
and they one by one, and go, and put the infants, and the cattle, and the baggage, before them.
And after this they consulted Jehovah whether he would come thither. And Jehovah answered: Behold he is hidden at home.
But he made himself vanity; taking the likeness of a servant, being made like men;
And it came to pass, as she continued praying before Jehovah, that Eli which her mouth.
And the people of Bethel came and sat there until evening before God, and they lifted their voices, and wept bitterly.
He brought the tribe of Benjamin, near according to their families: and the family of the Matrites was chosen. Then Saul the son of Kish, was chosen; but when they sought for him, he could not be found.
I pray thee, forgive the transgression of thy handmaid: for Jehovah will surely make my lord a lasting house; because my lord strifes, the battles of Jehovah, and evil hath not been found in thee all thy days.
And the woman came and told her husband, saying, A man of God came unto me, and his appearance was like the appearance of an angel of God, very terrible; but I could not whence he was, ask him neither did he tell me his name.
The angel of Jehovah appeared unto him, and said, The Lord is with thee, O most valiant of men.
And Jehovah spake unto Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel at which the ears of every one that whosoever heareth it will thereof.
And Caleb said, He that shall take Cariath-Sepher, and lay it desolate to him will I give my daughter Axa to wife.
After this thou shalt come unto the Gibeah of God, where there are sentries of the Philistines. Just as ye enter the city there, ye shall meet a procession of prophets coming down from the high place, with harp, tambourine, flute, and zither before them, and they shall be prophesying.
Then Samson said unto them, This time I will give gifts in full to the Philistines, for I will do them great evil.
And as for the asses that thou didst lose three days ago, set not thy heart upon them; for they are found. And on whom is all the desire of Israel ? Is it not upon thee, and upon all thy father's house?
David therefore sent forth spies, and understood that Saul had surely come.
But he turned back from the sculptured stones that stood by Gilgal, and he said, "I art a message for thee, O king." And he said, "Silence!" So all those standing in his presence went out,
And Saul cast a javelin at him to smite him: whereby Jonathan knew that it was determined of his father to slay David.
And he went up thence to Penuel, and spake unto them likewise: and the men of Penuel answer him as the men of Succoth had answer him.
But unto which of the angels hath he ever said, "Sit down at my right hand, until I make thine enemies the footstool for thy feet."
But all the Israelites went down to the Philistines, to sharpen every man his share, and his coulter, and his axe, and his mattock.
He setteth the poor out of the dust, and the needy out of the lowest place, to give them their place among princes, and to inherit the throne of glory: for the pillars of the earth are the Lord's and he hath made them the foundation of the world.
Wherefore lift up the hand that hang down, and the failing knees;
Is the wheat harvest not to-day? I will call out to Yahweh that he yet sendeth thunder and rain, that ye shall know and shall know that thy wickedness is great that thou hast done in the sight of Yahweh by asking for a king over yourselves."
And after certain days returning to take her, he went aside to see the carcass of the lion, and behold there was a swarm of bees in the mouth of the lion and a honeycomb.
And the servants of Saul said unto him: Behold now an evil spirit from God troubleth thee.
Behold, I will put a fleece of wool in the floor; and, behold, if the dew be upon the fleece only, and it be dry upon the whole earth beside, then shall For I know that thou wilt save Israel by mine, hand, as thou hast said.
I thank my God upon every remembrance of you,
Have they not found, booty, A divided the damsel, two damsels, to each? A booty of dyed stuffs for Sisera, A booty of dyed stuffs of embroidery, Dyed stuff of double embroidery for the neck of a spoiler?
And the children of Israel returned from chasing after the Philistines, and they pillaged their camps.
And he said unto them: Out of the eater came forth a portion of flesh, and out of the strong came forth sweetness. And they could not in three days expound the riddle.
Beware of the dogs, beware of the evil workers, beware of the false circumcision.
And Jephthah crossed over to the Ammonites, to fight against them; and Yahweh gave them into his hand.
This day Jehovah will deliver thee into my hand, and I will make thee afraid, take thy head off thee; and I will give the bodies of the Philistine army unto the birds of the heavens, and the beasts of the earth this day, that the whole earth may know that Israel hath a God;
And the people were perfect all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that were left after the death of Joshua, and had seen all the great work of Jehovah, which he had done for Israel.
And the man Micah had a house of gods, and made an ephod, and teraphim, and consecrated one of his sons, that became his priest.
not forsaking our own assembling together, as the custom of some is, but exhorting one another; and so much the more, as ye see the Day approaching.
And whereas indeed he was the Son of God, he learned obedience by the things which he suffered:
They arose early, and as the day was breaking, Samuel called to Saul upon the roof; saying, "Get up, Lest I can send thee away." So Saul arose, and both of them, he and Samuel, went without.
and the princes of the Philistines come up unto her, and say unto her, `Entice him, and see wherein his great power , and wherein we are able for him -- and we have bound him to afflict him, and we -- we render unto thee, each one, eleven hundred silverlings.'
And the angel of Jehovah came and sat under the terebinth that was in Ophrah, that to Joash the Abi-ezrite. And his son Gideon threshed wheat in the winepress, to secure from the Midianites.
and that every tongue may testify that Jesus Christ is Jehovah, to the glory of God the Father.
And the men of Gibeah rose against me, and beset the house round about upon me by night, and heed to have slain me: and my concubine have they forced, that she is dead.
Now there was a certain man of Saraa, and of the race of Dan, whose name was Manue, and his wife was barren.
For Christ did not enter into a sanctuary made by hands, a mere copy of the faithful one, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God on our behalf,
And it came to pass on the fourth day that they arose early in the morning, and he rose up to depart; and the damsel's father said unto his son-in-law, Refresh thy heart with a morsel of bread, and afterwards ye may go thy way.
And there went forth a champion out of the camp of the Philistines, called Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span.
Salute every saint in Christ Jesus. The brethren that are with me greet thee.
Who needeth not daily, as them high priests, to offer up sacrifice, first for his own sins, and then for the people's: for this he did once, when he offered up himself.
So God subdued on that day Jabin king of Canaan before the children of Israel.
And he walked there unto Naioth in Ramah. Then God's Spirit fell on him also, and he went, and prophesied, until he came to Naioth in Ramah.
Moreover the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan to battle also against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim: that Israel was sore distressed.
Euodia I exhort, and Syntyche I exhort, be of the same mind in Jehovah;
And all the coasts thereof from the Arnon unto the Jaboc, and from the wilderness unto the the Jordan.
David pursued, he and four hundred men; but two hundred men stayed because they were too exhausted to pass over the Wadi Besor.
And they slew of Moab at that time about ten thousand men, all lusty, and all men of valour; and there escaped not a man.
He will take thy male slaves and thy female slaves and the best of your young men and thy donkeys and shall use them for his projects.
And David said unto him, To whom belongest thou? and whence art thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant of an Amalekite; and my master left me; for three days ago I fell sick.
Then Saul and all the people that were with him, shouted together, and they came unto the place of them: and behold every man's sword, and upon his neighbor, and there was a very great slaughter.
So Samuel called out unto Jehovah, and Yahweh brought thunder and rain that same day, so all the people feared Yahweh and Samuel greatly.
For I have declared unto him that I will judge his house for ever, for the iniquity which he hath known: because his sons sanctified vile, and he restrained them not.
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they said unto Samson's wife, Entice thy husband, that he may declare unto us the riddle, lest we burning by thee and thy father's house with fire: have ye called us to take that we have? is it not so?
according to my earnest expectation and hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but in all boldness, as also Christ always, now shall be magnified in my body whether by life nor by death.
But the princes of the Philistines were wroth with him; and the princes of the Philistines said unto him, Make the man return, that he may go again to his place where thou hast appointed him, that he go not down with us to battle, that in the battle he be not an adversary unto us; for wherewith should this reconcile himself unto his master? should it not be with the heads of these men?
And Saul disguiseth himself, and putteth on other garments, and goeth, he and two of the men with him, and they come in unto the woman by night, and he saith, `Divine, I pray thee, unto me of the familiar spirit, and cause to come up to me him whom I say unto thee.'
the Holy Spirit this evidencing that not yet hath been manifested the way of the holy , the first tabernacle having yet a standing;
All Israel from Dan even to Beersheba knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of Jehovah I
For if that first covenant had been faultless, then no place would have been sought for a second.
But Samuel said, "What hast thou done?" Saul said, "Because I saw that the host was scattering from me, and ye did not come at the appointed time and that the Philistines had gathered at Micmash,
He saith unto them, "Follow me; for Yahweh hath delivered thine enemies the Moabites into thy hand." They followed him, and took the fords of the Jordan against the Moabites, and didn't allow any man to pass over.
And began to go towards the way of the desert, the enemy pursuing them thither also. And they that fired the city came also out to meet them.
Then all the wicked and unjust men that went up with David answered and Jehovah, Because they came not with us, we will not give them any thing of the prey which we have recovered: but let every man his wife, and his children, and be contented with them, and go his way.
Now when he was come unto the place of the Jawbone, and the Philistines shouting went to meet him, the spirit of Jehovah came strongly upon him: and as the flax is wont to be consumed at the approach of fire, So the pillows, wherewith he was bound were broken and loosed.
And when he saw her, he was put to the worse with grief, and said, Ah! my daughter! I am weary with trouble, And it is ye that are the chief cause of my calamity; for I have made a vow unto Jehovah, and I may not repent:
And Eli, heard the noise and the sackcloth: said, What meaneth this outcry? And the man came quickly, and told Eli.
Then David heed to himself, "Now I will perish one day by the hand of Saul! There is nothing better for me but that I must surely escape to the land of the Philistines. And Saul shall desist from seek me also in all of the territories of Israel, and so will I escape from his hand."
and she saith, `O, my lord, thy soul liveth! my lord, I the woman that stood with thee in this , to pray unto Jehovah;
For when the people that were numbered of them, not one man of the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead, was present.
and he leadeth them before the king of Moab, and they dwell with him all the days of David's being in the fortress.
Of the doctrine of baptisms, and of laying on of hands, and of resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment.
Then David said to Abiathar the priest, the son of Ahimelech, "Please bring the ephod here for me." So Abiathar brought the ephod, to David.
Who was faithful to him that appointed him, as also Moses was faithful in all his house.
Then said Saul unto the servant that kept the charge of his armor, Take forth thy sword and thrust me through therewith, lest these uncircumcised come and abuse me. But his servant, afraid, would not Therefore Saul took his sword, and fell upon it, destroy himself.
from time to time the daughters of Israel go to speak unto the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite, four days in a year.
And Jehovah had mercy on Hannah and she bare three sons and two daughters. And the young Samuel became elder before Jehovah.
Now Saul heard that David and the men that were with him had been located. Saul was sitting at Gibeah under the tamarisk tree at Ramah. Now his spear was in his hand, and all his servants were against around him.
And Kish begat Saul; and Ner, the father of Abner was the son of Abiel.
But Gideon said unto them, I will not be prince over thee, and my son shall not be prince over thee: it is Jehovah who shall be prince over thee.
Ask thy young men, and they shall tell thee. Therefore let the young men find favour in thine eyes; for we come in a good day; give, I pray thee, saith thy hand may find unto thy servants, and to thy son David.
So they turned and departed, and put the little ones, the livestock, and the spoil before them.
Shall we be diligent, therefore to enter into that rest, that none in the same ensample of the unbelief may fall,
And Gideon taketh ten men of his servants, and doth as Jehovah hath spoken unto him, and it cometh to pass, because he hath been afraid of the house of his father, and the men of the city, to do by day, that he doth by night.
The three companies blew the trumpets, broke the pitchers, and held the torches in their left hand, and the trumpets in their right hand, wherewith to blow; and they shouted, "The sword of Yahweh and of Gideon!"
And he shall take your daughters to be confectionaries, and to be cooks, and to be bakers.
and the Spirit of Jehovah prospereth over him, and he rendeth it as the rending of a kid, and there is nothing in his hand, and he hath not declared unto his father and his mother that which he hath done.
and after the second vail a tabernacle that is called `Holy of holies,'
Then answer all the wicked men and men of Belial, of them that went with David, and said, Because they went not with us, we will not give them ought of the spoil that we have recovered, save to every man his wife, and his children, that they may lead them away, and depart.
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up, but behold, I have delivered the land into his hand.
And David and his men that were about six hundred, arose, and departing from Ceila, wandered to and fro man, unstable where they should stay: and it was told Saul that David was fled from Ceila, and had escaped: wherefore he forbore to go out.
And the Levite is willing to dwell with the man, and the young man is unto him as one of his sons.
And he said unto her, If they should bind me fast with new ropes, with which no work hath been done then should I be weak, and be as another man.
He sent spies, and learned that he was most surely come thither.
It was necessary therefore that the copies of the things in the heavens should be cleansed with these; but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these.
So Yahweh left those nations; he did not drive them out at once, and he did not deliver them into the hand of Joshua.
For as long as the son of Isai liveth upon earth, thou shalt not be established, nor thy kingdom. Therefore now presently send, and fetch him unto me: for he is the son of death.
And Saul took him that day, and would let him go no more home to his father's house.
and Carmel and in the cities of the Jerahmeelites, and in the cities of the Kenites;
Now Ahijah, the son of Ahitub (the brother of Ichabod), the son of Phinehas the son of Eli the priest of Yahweh at Shiloh, was carrying an ephod inward. The troops did not know that Jonathan had gone.
And now behold, For I know that thou shalt surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thy hand.
They were a wall unto us both by night and day, all the while we were with them keeping the sheep.
And he walked from year to year in a circuit unto Bethel, Gilgal, and Mizpah; and there he judged Israel in all them places.
Arid having great thirsty, he cried unto Jehovah, and said, Thou hast given this very great deliverance and victory into the hand of thy servant: and behold I die for thirst, and shall fall into the hand of the uncircumcised.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
Saul was  years old when he began to reign; and he reigned two years over Israel.
And the Hebrews went over the Jordan into the land of Gad and Gilead. And Saul was yet in Gilgal, and all the people followed him trembling.
Wherefore leaving the word of the beginning of Christ, let us go along to things more perfect, not laying again the foundation of penance from dead works, and of faith towards God,
Ask me never we may not give them wives of our daughters, for the children of Israel had sworn, saying, 'Cursed is he that giveth a wife to Benjamin.'"
They gathered together to Mizpah, and drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah, and fasted in that day, and said there, "We have sinned against Yahweh." Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizpah.
And the man said unto Eli, "I am the one that is come from the battle line! I have fled this day from the battle line!" And he said, "What exactly happened, my son?"
And Gideon, the son of Joash died, when he was very old, and his body was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in Ophrah, of the Abiezrites.
My heart goeth forth to the commanders of Israel, them offering themselves willingly among the people; bless Yahweh!
Bronze greaves were upon his loins; a bronze javelin was slung between his shoulders.
For every house hath a builder; but build all things; and Israel is God.
And [there is] a man in Maon, and his work in Carmel; and the man exceeding great, and he hath three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats; and he is shearing his flock in Carmel.
And David said to Abiathar, I knew it that day, when mischief, O The lovingkindness was there, that he would surely tell Saul: I am accountable for all the lives of thy father's house.
Yahweh called Samuel; and he said, "Here I am."
that he declareth unto her all his heart, and saith unto her, `A razor hath not gone up upon my head, for a Nazarite to God I from the womb of my mother; if I have been shaven, then hath my power turned aside from me, and I have been weak, and have been as any of the human race.'
And Saul spoken: They have brought them from Amalec: for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the herds that they might be sacrificed unto Jehovah thy God, but the rest we have slain.
Then David sent forth ten young men; and David said unto the young men, Go up to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and greet him in my name.
And the liers in wait hasted, and rushed upon Gibeah: and the liers in wait drew themselves along, and smote all the city with the edge of the sword.
But Sisera fled on foot unto the tent of Jael, the wife of Heber, the Kenite; for there was peace between Jabin, king of Hazor, and the family of Heber, the Kenite.
nor yet through the blood of goats and calves, but through his own blood, entered in once for all into the Holy Place, having obtained eternal redemption.
Not that I speak in respect unto lack, for I have learned in whatsoever state I am, to be content therein.
For thou both sympathized with the captives and bear with the seizure of thy belongings with joy because ye knew that ye yourselves had a better and permanent possession.
And Saul said unto David; Thou art not able to withstand this Philistine, nor to battle against him: for thou art but a child, but he is a warrior from his youth.
And every one that was in their affliction, and every one that was debtors, and every one that was bitter in soul, gathered themselves together unto him, and he began to captain over them: about four hundred men were joined to him.
For by one offering he hath perfected for all while they that are made holy.
And afterwards the children of Judah went down to battle against the Canaanites, that dwelt in the hill-country, and in the south, and in the Plain.
Then Yahweh's Spirit shall come mightily upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shall be turned into another man.
At her feet he bowed, he fell, he lay down: at her feet he bowed, he fell: where he bowed, there he fell down dead.
saying, This blood is the token of the covenant which God hath made with thee.
And Saul saw the host of the Plilistines, and was afraid, and his heart was very much dismayed.
always in my every prayer for you all, making the prayer with joy,
(only for the sake of the generations of the sons of Israel's knowing, to teach them war, only they that formerly have not known them) --
And the sons of Israel say unto Samuel, `Keep not silent for us from cried unto Jehovah our God, and He doth save us out of the hand of the Philistines.'
And the guards behold, a man come forth out of the city, and said unto him, Shew us, we pray thee, how shall enter into the city, and we will shew thee kindness.
Samuel told all Yahweh's words unto the people that asked him for a king.
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel to Mizpeh, and I will pray for thou unto Jehovah.
But Hannah entered not up, for she said unto her husband, [I shall wait] until the child is weaned; then will I bring him, that he may appear before Jehovah, and there abide for ever.
And the children of Israel were moved with compassion for Benjamin their brother, saying, To-day one tribe is cut off from Israel.
And Saul spoken: Disperse yourselves among the people, and tell them to bring me every man his ox or his ram, and slay them upon this stone, and eat, and ye shall not have sinned against Jehovah, eating with the blood. So all the people brought every man his ox, with him until the night: and slew them there.
Then David enquired of Jehovah yet again. And Jehovah answer him, and said, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will deliver the Philistines into thine hand.
Then Samuel told the people the manner of the kingdom, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
His Son is the radiance of his glory, the very image of his substance, and upholding all things by the word of his majesty, when he had by himself purified us of our sins, sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high,
And she had men hide themselves in the inner Give place: and she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson. And the cords were broken by him for a twist of thread is broken when touch flame. So the mystery of his strength came not to light.
I press upon toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus.
All the men of Israel that had hidden themselves in the hill country of Ephraim heard that the Philistines had fled, so even they pursued them closely in the battle.
Just as he burnt the oblation finished sacrifice, Samuel was coming. So Saul went out to meet him, and to bless him.
For some, when they had heard, did provoke: howbeit not all that came forth out of Egypt by Moses.
Jephthah judged Israel, six years. Then Jephthah the Gileadite died, and was buried in the cities of Gilead.
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel, who came not up unto Jehovah in the assembly of all Israel? For they had taken a great oath that whosoever came not up to Mizpah, to Jehovah was to be put to death.
Not that I speak from the land: for I have learned to be content in whatsoever circumstances I am.
And all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came to Samuel to Ramah,
And Jonathan said, Far be it from thee; for, if I knew with certainty that wicked were determined by my father to come upon thee, would I not tell it thee?
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered themselves together for warfare, to battle with Israel. And Achish said unto David, Know thou assuredly, that thou shalt go forth with me to battle, thou and thy men.
And, behold, I will send a lad, saying, Go, find out the arrows. If I expressly say unto the lad, Behold, the arrows are on this side of thee, take them; then come thou: for there is peace to thee, and no hurt; as Jehovah liveth.
And when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead, heard that the Philistines had done to Saul,
being able to deal gently with them that are ignorant and led astray, since he himself also is surrounded by weakness,
And when they were risen in the morning, and it began now to be light, Samuel called Saul on the top of the house, voice, saying, Arise, that I may show thee go. And Saul arose: and they went out both of them, to wit, he and Samuel.
Dost thou not thy god putteth possess what Chemosh thee in possession of? and whatsoever Jehovah our God hath dispossessed before us, that shall we possess.
Wherefore, holy calling, brethren, partakers of a consider the heavenly apostle and chief priest of our profession, Christ Jesus,
And they said unto him, "Please inquire of God that we may know whether our journey that we go on shall be successful."
of the holy places a servant, and of the true tabernacle, which Jehovah did set up, and not man,
For Zebul the governor of the city, heard the words of Gaal, the son of Obed, was wroth,
And they shall salute thee, and give thee two loaves of bread; which thou shalt receive of their hands.
For every commandment having been spoken according to law by Moses unto all the people; having received the blood of calves and goats, with water, and scarlet wool and hyssop, he sprinkled both the book itself and all the people,
While she continued to pray before Jehovah, Eli was observing her mouth.
For we don't have here an enduring city, but we seek that which is to come.
Then David came to Siceleg, and sent presents of the prey unto the ancients of Juda his neighbors, voice, saying, Receive a blessing of the prey of the enemies of Jehovah.
But Aod, while they were in confusion, escaped, and passed over against the idols, from whence he had Seirath: And he came to returned.
For having done that which was right in God's eyes, ye have need of standing before his word is for you.
And Jair died: and was buried in the place which was called Camon.
And the man saith unto Eli, `I he that hath come out of the ranks, and I out of the ranks have fled to-day;' and he saith, `What hath been the matter, my son?'
Let *us* also therefore, having so great a cloud of witnesses surrounding us, laying aside every weight, and sin which so easily entangles us, endurance the race that run with lies before us,
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and smote them unto the morning, till there is not a man of them alive. And they said, Thou shalt as it seemeth right unto you. then the priest said, Let us come near to God.
And he went from year to year in circuit unto Bethel, and Gilgal, and Mizpah, and judged Israel in all them places.
Since, would they not indeed have ceased being offered, for the worship once purged having no more any conscience sins?
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he said, Because this nation hath not been faithful unto my covenant which I made with their fathers, and hath not hearkened to my voice;
Ehud, put forth his left hand, and took the sword from his right thigh, and thrust it into his body:
Jehovah giveth yea, also Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines, and to-morrow thou and thy sons with me; also the camp of Israel doth Jehovah give into the hand of the Philistines.'
And it came to pass at that time, when Abiathar the son of Achimelech fled to David unto Ceila, he came down having an ephod with him.
Here I am: testify against me before Jehovah, and before the man upon whom he hath put the holy oil: ass or an ox have I taken? to whom have I been untrue? that hath trodden down by me? from whose hand have I taken sell the blinding of my eyes? I will give it all back unto you.
Manasseh did not drive out the inhabitants of Beth Shean and the cities thereof, nor Taanach and the cities thereof, nor the inhabitants of Dor and the cities thereof, nor the inhabitants of Ibleam and the cities thereof, nor the inhabitants of Megiddo and its cities; but the Canaanites would dwell in that land.
By the new and dwell way which he opened for us through the veil, that is to say, his flesh;
But he refused, and said, "I shall not eat." But his servants, together with the woman, constrained him; and he listened unto their voice. So he arose from the earth, and sat on the bed.
When they told it to Jotham, he went and stood on the top of mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said unto them, "Listen unto me, ye men of Shechem, that God may listen unto you.
And David slew them from the evening unto the evening of the next day, and there escaped not a man of them, but four hundred young men, that had gotten upon camels, and fled.
Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief, in departing from the living God.
And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said unto him, Blessed art thou of Jehovah: I have fulfilled the word of Jehovah.
But the desireth the tree said unto them, 'Should I stayed yielding my sweetness, and my good crop, to go sway over the trees?'
And they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines battle against Keilah, and they rob the threshingfloors.
And every priest shall take his place at the altar day by day, to do that which is the word of and make exceedingly the same sacrifices that are never able to make atonement sins.
And it came to pass that, after they had carried it to pass, the hand of Jehovah was against the city with exceeding great panic; and he smote the men of the city, both small and great, and hemorrhoids broke out upon them.
There was severe war against the Philistines all the days of Saul; and when Saul saw any mighty man, or any valiant man, he brought him into his service.
And she wept before him the seven days, while they had the feast. And it came to pass on the seventh day, that he explained it unto her, for she pressed him. And she explained the riddle unto the children of her people.
To whom also Abraham gave a tenth part of all; first being by interpretation King of righteousness, and after that also King of Salem which is, King of peace;
Now there were between the ascents, whereby Jonathan sought to pass over to the garrison of the Philistines rocks standing up upon both sides thereof; and steep cliffs like teeth on the one side and on the other side, the name of the one was Boses, and the name of the other was Sene:
And Samson saith unto the young man that is keeping hold upon his hand, `Let me alone, and let me feel the pillars whereon the house is established, and I lean upon them.'
holding up the word of life; that I may have somewhat to boast in the day of Christ, that I didn't run in vain nor labor in vain.
But Gideon said unto them, "I shall not rule over thee, and my son shall not rule over thee; Yahweh shall rule over you."
Then Saul clothed David with his own strife attire and put a helmet of bronze upon his head, and clothed him with body armor.
And it is yet more abundantly evident, since a different priest arises according to the similitude of Melchisedec,
And Deborah, a prophetess, the wife of Lapidoth, judged Israel at that time.
And thou shalt set their host in array against them; and they took all the increase of the earth as far as Gaza, until there was a famine in Israel, or any sheep, or oxen or asses.
So David went, he and the six hundred men that were with him, and they came unto the Wadi Besor, but the rest remained.
But Sihon would not give place and made Israel to pass through his border: and Sihon gathered together all his people, and encamped in Jahaz, and fought against Israel.
How much worse vengeance do ye think he will judge worthy of that hath trodden under foot the Son of God, and hath counted the blood of the covenant with which he was sanctified an unholy thing, and hath insulted the Spirit of grace? God
Here people that die receive tithes, but there one receives tithes of whom it is testified that he souls.
And Yahweh was with Judah, and he took possession of the hill country, but they could not drive out the inhabitants of the plain because they had chariots of iron.
And he shall take thy bondmen, and thy bondwomen, and thy comeliest young men, and thy asses, and with them for his work.
Keep thy places behold, while I bear the contention with you before Jehovah, and give thee the parable of the righteousness of Jehovah, which he hath made known by his works unto you and to your fathers.
He struck Nob, the city of the priests, with the edge of the sword, both men and women, children, and nursing babies, and cattle, and donkeys and sheep, with the edge of the sword.
And ye shall make no league with the inhabitants of this land; ye shall throw down their altars: but ye have not obeyed my voice: why have ye done this?
God for us something better having provided, that apart from us they should not be made perfect.
And Saul saith unto his uncle, `He surely declared unto us that the asses were found;' and of the matter of the kingdom he hath not declared unto him that which Samuel spoken.
And Jonathan climbed up upon his hands and upon his feet, and his armour-bearer after him; and they fell before Jonathan; and his armour-bearer slew after him.
I thank my God at every remembrance of you,
And Ehud, put forth his left hand, and took the sword from his right side, and cast it into his bowels
As faith he forsook Egypt, not and one that feared the wrath of the king; for he endured, as seeing him that is invisible.
So David prevailed over the Philistine with the sling and with the stone, and he struck down the Philistine and killed him, but there was no sword in David's hand.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto the woman, and said unto her, Behold now, barren, and thou art bearest not: but thou shalt conceive, and bear a son.
And the uncle of Saul saith, `Declare, I pray thee, unto me, what Samuel said unto you?'
But now he hath bought a more excellent ministry, by so much as he is mediator of a better covenant, which is established on the footing of better promises.
And Samuel told him all the words, and kept back anything from him. And he said, It is Jehovah: let him do that which is good in his sight.
In those days the children of Ammon fought against Israel.
And the man went into the land of the Hittites, and built a city, and called the name Luz, which is the name unto this day.
And after him Ibzan of Beth-Lehem judgeth Israel,
Then Saul said unto David, Blessed be thee, David my son; thou wilt do great things and without doubt but ye shall subdued. Then David went on his way, and Saul returned unto his place.
She put her hand to the tent-pin, And her right hand to the workmen's assemblies, which And she smote Sisera, she Shattered and struck through his head, pierced through his temples.
And the me, went up to Saul in Gabaa, voice, saying, Lo, doth not David lie hid with us in the mighty holds of the wood, in mount Hachila, which is on the right hand of the desert.
harden not your heart, as in the provocation, in the day of temptation in the wilderness;
Then Manoah took the kid and the oblation, and offered it up to Jehovah upon the rock. And he did wondrously, and Manoah and his wife, as one on.
And Jephthah saith unto the elders of Gilead, `If ye are taking me to return to battle against the Bene-Ammon, and Jehovah hath given them before me -- I, am I unto you for a head?'
And no one taketh the honor to himself but called by God, even as Aaron also.
And Saul `Blessed saith unto David, thou, my son David also working thou dost work, and dost thou also prevailing prevail.' And David goeth on his way, And Saul hath turned back to his stead.
The Levites took down Yahweh's ark, and the coffer that was with it, wherein the jewels of gold, were, and put them upon the great stone; and the men of Beth sacrificed sacrifices and burnt Shemesh offer sacrifices the same day unto Jehovah I
But we are not the children of withdrawing unto perdition, but of faith unto the saving of the soul.
The same night Jehovah said unto him: Arise, and go down into the camp: because I have delivered them into thy hand.
and the volume hath begun to go up from the city -- a pillar of smoke -- and Benjamin turneth behind, and lo, gone up hath the perfection of the city toward the heavens.
After a while he returned to take her; and he turned aside to see the carcass of the lion; And behold, there was a swarm of bees in the body of the lion, and honey.
And the ark of Jehovah is in the field of the Philistines seven months
Then Saul fell immediately his full length upon the earth, and was terrified, because of Samuel's words. There was no strength in him; for he had eaten no bread all the day nor all the night.
Now therefore therefore look, For I know that ye shall surely be king and the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thy hand.
And Moses indeed was faithful in all his house as a servant, for a testimony of those things which were spoken:
And Jehovah doth for Himself as He hath spoken by my hand, and Jehovah rendeth the kingdom out of thy hand, and giveth it to thy neighbor -- to David.
But Saul had given Michal his daughter, David's wife, to Phalti the son of Laish, who was of Gallim.
And the words that David spoke were heard, and were rehearsed before Saul.
And ye shall not cut off thy loyal love from my house forever, not even when Yahweh exterminates each of the enemies of David from the face of the earth."
And at the dawning of day the woman came, and fell down at the door of the man's house where her master was, stretched there until it was light.
Not because I desire a gift: but I desire fruit that may abound unto thy sake,
And both of them discovered themselves unto the garrison of the Philistines; and the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews come forth out of the clefts where they had hid themselves.
And he answered: Thou hast ravished my gods which I have made me and the priest, and all that I have, and do ye write: What aileth thee?
Then Micah said, Behold now, I know that Jehovah will do me good, seeing the Levite is become my priest.
Then answer one of the people, and said, Thy father straitly charged the people with an oath, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth any food this day. And the people were faint.
And Jehovah said unto Gideon, The people that are with thee are too the countries, and that I should Midian into their hand, lest Israel vaunt themselves against me, saying, Mine own hand hath saved me.
even to choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to Me for a priest, to go up upon Mine altar, to make a incense, to bear an ephod before Me, and I give unto the house of thy father all the fire-offerings of the sons of Israel?
And Saul eyed David from that day and forward.
And he returned to Ramatha, for there was his house, and there he judged Israel: he built also there an altar unto Jehovah.
But, beloved, though we say this, we know that thou hast better things in you, things that go with salvation;
therefore "Now stand yet and see this great thing, which Yahweh will do in the midst of thee.
And it cometh to pass, when he seeth her, that he saith, rendeth his garments, and `Alas, my daughter, thou hast caused me greatly to bend, and thou hast been among them troubled me; and I -- I have opened my mouth unto Jehovah, and I cannot back.' purifications accomplished,
These men were very good unto us, and brought us no tribulation: neither did we ever lose any thing all the time that we conversed with them in the desert.
And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and rehearsed them in the ears of Jehovah.
Then Ehud, went forth through the porch, and shut the gates of the parlour upon him, and sealed them.
And an angel of the Lord came, and sat under an oak, that was in Ephra, and belonged to Joas the father of the house of Ezri. And when Gedeon his son was threshing and cleansing wheat by the winepress, to flee from Madian,
But the princes of the Philistines were incensed against him; and the princes of the Philistines said unto him, "Make the man return, that he may go and return unto his place where thou hast appointed him, and let him not go down with us to battle, lest in the battle he become an adversary unto us. For with what should this fellow reconcile himself unto his lord? Should it not be with the heads of these men?
They arose, and went to Ziph, before Saul: but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the Arabah on the south of the desert.
and to God, even our Father, the glory -- unto the ages of the ages. Amen.
And it came to pass when the time was come to pass after Hannah had conceived, that she bore a son, and called his name Samuel, [saying,] Because I have asked him of Jehovah.
That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of things in heaven, and things in earth, and things under the earth;
and to Jesus, mediator of a new covenant; and to blood of sprinkling, speaking better than Abel.
And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnathheres, in the mount of Ephraim, on the north side of the hill mountain of Gaash.
But call to remembrance the former days in which after ye were illuminated, ye afflictions; fight of a great endured
And indeed they that are of the sons of Levi, who receive the priesthood, have a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law, that is to say, of their brethren: though they themselves also came out of the loins of Abraham.
And standing he cried out unto the bands of Israel, and said unto them, Why art thou come out prepared unto a I am not war? Philistine, and ye the servants of Saul? Choose out a man of thee, and let him come down and battle hand to hand.
Wherefore, also Jesus -- that he might sanctify through own blood the people -- without the gate did suffer;
And Saul sent messengers to David, and she said, He is sick.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Jephthah, Therefore we have returned unto thee now, that thou mayest go with us, and battle against the children of Ammon, and be head over all of us the inhabitants of Gilead.
For God is not forget thy work, and unrighteous to labour of love, which ye have shewed toward his name, in that ye have ministered unto the saints, and do minister.
And Samson saith unto them, `Let me, I pray thee, that thou shalt set forth unto thee a riddle; if ye surely declare it unto me the seven days of the banquet, and have found forth, then I have given thee thirty linen garments; shirts, and thirty changes of
And it was so, that, when he had turned his back to go from Samuel, God gave him another heart: and all they signs came to pass that day.
And Saul built an altar unto Jehovah: the same was the first altar that he built unto Jehovah.
And they went out into the field, and gathered their vineyards, and trode [the grapes], and made rejoicings, and went into the house of their god, and ate and drank, and cursed shalt thou be Abimelech.
He judged over Israel for twenty and three years; and his body was gathered in the earth in Shamir.
And to march from the west side of the city. And other ten thousand men chosen out of all Israel persecuted the inhabitants of the city. And the battle grew hot against the children of Benjamin: and they understood not that present death threatened them on every side.
And every priest stands daily ministering, and offering often the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins.
And the garrison of the Philistines went out to the passage of Michmash.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I remember that which Amalek did unto Israel, how he laid wait for him in the way, when he came up from Egypt.
They "He is. answer them, and said, Behold, he is before you. Hurry now, for he hath come this day into the city; for the people have a sacrifice to-day in the high place.
And David came to Ziklag, and he sent of the spoil unto the elders of Judah, to his friends, saying, Behold a present for ye of the spoil of the enemies of Jehovah:
In that day will I perform against Eli all things which I have spoken concerning his house: when I begin, I will also make an end.
Is not this David, of whom they answer in choruses, saying, Saul hath smitten among his thousands, and David among his myriads?'
So Saul died, and his three sons and his servant in one day.
As faith he left Egypt, not and one that feared the measure, of the king, for he persevered as though he saw the invisible one.
When Saul and all Israel heard these words of the Philistine, they were dismayed and very afraid.
When Samuel saw Saul, Yahweh answer him, "Here is the man about whom I told you. This is the one who shall govern my people."
And when the king sat down upon his chair (according to custom) which was beside the wall, Jonathan arose, and Abner Saul's side, and sat by David's place appeared empty.
And Samuel said unto the people, [It is] Jehovah that appointed Moses and Aaron, and who brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
And the servants of Saul told him the words of what David had said.
But if not, let fire come out from Abimelech and devour the men of Shechem, and the house of Millo; and let fire come out from the men of Shechem, and from the house of Millo, and devour Abimelech.
And Jehovah spake unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, seeing I have rejected him from reigning over Israel? fill thine horn with oil, and go, I will send thee to Jesse the Bethlehemite: for I have provided me a king among his sons.
Harden not your heart, as in the provocation; in the day of temptation in the desert,
But I am pressed by both, having the striving after departure and being with Christ, [it is] very much your doings,
And Samuel speaketh unto all the house of Israel, saying, `If with all thy heart, ye are turned back unto Jehovah -- turning aside the gods of the stranger from thy midst, and Ashtaroth; and prepare thy heart unto Jehovah, and serve He only, and He doth deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.'
In that day will I do unto Eli all that I have spoken concerning his house, from first to last.
Therefore strengthen thy slackened yoke, and burst thy weakened knees,
And it cometh to pass in her coming in, that she persuadeth him to ask from her father the field, and she lighteth from off the ass, and Caleb saith unto her, `What -- to thee?'
But six hundred men turned and fled to the wilderness unto the rock Rimmon, and abode in the rock Rimmon four months.
Then Delilah said unto Samson, Tell me, I pray thee, unto that which is thy great strength, and with what thou mightest be overpower bound unto thee.
And Abimelech chased him; and he fled before him, and the countries, and were overthrown and unto the deadly wounded, entering of the gate.
He saith unto his mother, "The eleven hundred pieces of silver, that were purchased from thee, which thou uttered a curse, and also spoke it in mine ears, behold, the silver is with me. I took it." His mother said, "May Yahweh bless my son!"
And Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger, and ate no flesh the second day of the new moon; for he was grieved for David, because his father had done him shame.
Then Jonathan said, "Behold, we will pass over to the men, and we will reveal ourselves unto them.
But if ye have not that punishment of which we all have our portion, then ye are not true sons, but children of shame.
Now Jehovah had told Samuel in his ear a day before Saul came, saying,
And the children of Israel enquired of Jehovah, (for the ark of the covenant of God was there in those days,
And David letteth down the spoil of off him on the hand of a keeper of the goods, and runneth into the rank, and cometh and asketh of his brethren of welfare.
And the heads of all the people, even of all the tribes of Israel, presented themselves in the congregation of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen that drew sword.
The children of Benjamin did not drive out the Jebusites, that inhabited Jerusalem, but the Jebusites dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
The hand of the children of Israel prevailed more and more against Jabin the king of Canaan, until they had destroyed Jabin king of Canaan.
But in those sacrifices there is a remembrance again made of sins every year.
Now David had said, Surely, in vain have I kept all that this had in the wilderness, that nothing was missed of all that was his; and he hath requited me evil for good.
So the cook bare the shank and what was upon it, and set it before Saul, and he said, "Look, the saved portion is before youeat, because it hath been kept for thee for the appointed time," and he said, "I have invited the people." So Saul ate with Samuel that day.
The people answer him in this way, saying, "So shall it be done unto the man that kills him."
And the young Samuel, and served elder, had the favor of Jehovah, and of men.
And the inhabitants of Gibeah gathered themselves together against me, round about the house upon all sides by night; it was their counsel to kill me, and my servant-wife was shaken for them, and is dead.
And verily they that are of the sons of Levi, who receive the office of the priesthood, have a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law, that is, of their brethren, though they come out of the loins of Abraham:
But Christ, being come a high priest of the good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle not made with hand, that is, not of this creation:
When the Ashdodites rose up early the next morning, behold, Dagon fallen with his face to the ground before the ark of Yahweh! And they took Dagon and returned him to his stead.
They set Yahweh's ark upon the cart, and the coffer with the golden mice and the graven images of their tumors.
And David saith unto Abiathar, `I have known on that day that mischief, O The lovingkindness there, that he doth surely declare unto Saul; I have brought round unto all the souls that were of the house of thy father:
And his servants told David these words, and the matter pleased David to become the son-in-law of the king as the specified hour was not expired.
And on the fourth day they rose early in the morning, and he prepared to go, but the father of the young woman said unto his son-in-law, "Refresh thyself with a piece of food, and afterward ye may go."
Circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews; as toucheth the law, a Pharisee;
But a young man of the servants told Abigail Nabal's wife, saying, "Look, David sent messengers from the desert to greet our teacher: but he addressed them angrily,
And Saul took him that day, and would not let him return unto his father's house.
and I deliver you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all thy oppressors, and I cast them out from thy presence, and I give unto thee their land,
And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, drawn away from the city; and as before, at their first and fight, they slew about thirty men of Israel upon the high places of which one goeth up to Beth-el, and the other to Gibeah, and in the open field.
And the people refused to hearken unto the voice of Samuel; and they said, Nay, but there shall be a king over us,
And the masters of Shechem set for him ambushes on the top of the hills, and rob every one that passeth over by them in the way, and it is declared unto Abimelech.
As faith he sojourned as a stranger in the land of promise as a foreign country, having dwelt in tents with Isaac, and Jacob, the heirs with of the same promise;
for *our* commonwealth hath its created in heavens, from which also we await the Lord Jesus Christ Saviour,
And the Philistine said unto David, Stand, I pray thee, me, and I will give thy flesh to the birds of the heavens, and the beasts of the field.
The house of Joseph sent to spy out Bethel. That name of the city beforetime was Luz.)
And Jehovah spake unto Samuel, Hear their voice and make a king over them. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Let return every man to his own city.
He said unto David, "You are more righteous than thou; for thou hast done good unto me, whereas I have dealt ill with thee.
for he waited for the city which hath foundations, of which God is artificer and constructor.
And they said one to another, Who hath done this thing? And when they enquired and asked, they said, Gideon the son of Joash hath done this thing.
But the man wouldn't stay that night, but he rose up, and departed, and toward Jebus (also called Jerusalem). With him were a couple of saddled donkeys. His concubine also was with him.
They chose new gods; then was war in the gates: was there a shield and spear seen among forty thousand in Israel?
Then went Samson down, and his father and his mother, to Timnath, and came to the vineyards of Timnath: and, behold, a young lion roared against him.
Then Samuel gave the people the statutes of the kingdom, upon a roll of a book which he put in a sure place before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
and straight paths make unto thy feet, that that which is lame cannot be turned aside, but rather be healed;
And Jehovah will not forsake his people for his great name's sake: because Jehovah hath sworn to make thee his people.
And Jonathan hailstones David to swear again, by the love he had for him; for he loved him as he loved his own soul.
Thy lifestyle must be free from the love of money, being content with what thou believest. For he himself hath said, "I shall never desert thee, and I will never abandon you."
And the men of Israel say unto Gideon, `Rule over us, both thou, and thy son, and thy son's son; for thou hast saved us from the hand of Midian.'
And Jonathan saith unto the young man bearing his weapons, `Come, and we pass over unto the station of these uncircumcised; it may be Jehovah doth work for us, for there is no restraint unto Jehovah to save by the countries, nor by few.'
Now the children of Israel went up, and wept before Jehovah until even, besought Jehovah and saying, Shall I go forward again to the battle against the children of Benjamin my brother? And Jehovah said, Go up against him.
The Holy Spirit was making this, that the entrance of the holy place was not yet revealed, while the first tent was yet in divinity;
and again, when he brings in the firstborn into the habitable world, he saith, And all God's angels worship him.
Awake, awake, Deborah! awake, awake, utter a song! Arise, Barak, and lead captive captives, thou son of thy Abinoam!
And she saith unto him, `My father -- thou hast opened thy mouth unto Jehovah, do unto me as it hath gone forth out of thy mouth, after that Jehovah hath done for thee vengeance upon thine enemies, upon the Bene-Ammon.'
And thou shalt take the ark of Jehovah, and lay it upon the cart; and put the jewels of gold, which ye return him for a trespass sacrifice in a coffer by the side thereof; and send it away, that it may go.
But our conversation is in heaven; from whence also we look for the Saviour, our Lord Jesus Christ,
Then he called hastily to the young man his armor bearer, and said unto him, "Draw thy sword, and kill me, that men not say of me, 'A woman killed him.' His young man thrust him up, and he died."
Abimelech therefore arose and all his army, by night, and laid ambushes near Sichem in four places.
Then David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go after this band? shall I be able to overtake them? And he answered and said, Go after them, for thou shalt surely be devoured, and redeem Laban all these things.
And there was a great war against the Philistines all the days of Saul. For whomsoever Saul saw to be a valiant man, and fit for war, he brought him to himself.
And he sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon, to say in his name, What hast thou to do with me, that thou art come against me, to forward my land?
(Now Samuel had died, and all Israel had mourned for him, and they had buried him in Ramah, his own city. And Saul had expelled the mediums and the soothsayers from the land.)
For thy fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now:
He said, "I come in peace. I am come to sacrifice to Jehovah I Sanctify yourselves and come with me into the sacrifice." So he sanctified Jesse and his sons, and invited them unto the sacrifice.
And the men that were with David said unto him: Behold we are in fear here in Judea, how much more if we go to Ceila against the hand of the Philistines?
They struck the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon. The people were very faint;
And Samuel took a sucking lamb, and offered it whole for a holocaust unto Jehovah: and Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel, and Jehovah heard him.
And Saul said unto Jehovah the God of Israel, Give a perfect ! And Jonathan and Saul were taken, and the people escaped.
But if thou fear thou go to sink, Phurah with thy servant down to the host:
Now therefore, my lord, by the living God and by thy living soul, seeing Jehovah hath kept thee from put away the innocent blood blood, and from taking into thy hand the punishment for thy wrongs, may all thine enemies, and they that would do evil unto my lord, be as Nabal.
And the children of Israel remembered not Jehovah their God, who had delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies on every side,
and Gaal son of Ebed goeth out, and standeth at the dedication of the gate of the city, and Abimelech -- riseth also the people that with him -- from the ambush,
Now the lad Samuel was serving Yahweh in the presence of Eli. The word of Yahweh was rare in those days; visions were not widespread.
The utility wagon came to the field of Joshua of Beth Shemesh and the deaf there where was a large stone. They split the wood of the utility cart, and sacrificed the kine as a burnt oblation unto Jehovah I
"I pray made Saul king, for he hath turned back from following me, and hath not kept my word." Samuel became wroth, and he cried out to Yahweh all night.
The man Micah had a house of gods, and he made an ephod, and teraphim, and consecrated one of his sons, that became his priest.
And my prayer is that ye may multiply more and more in knowledge, and experience;
Therefore I have also given him to Jehovah I As long as he lives he is given to Yahweh." He worshiped Yahweh there.
And when he was brought unto him, he said unto him: Let not any man's heart be dismayed in him: I thy servant shall go, and will battle against the Philistine.
even he to whom it was said, "your seed shall be accounted as from Isaac";
And the people said unto Saul, Shall Jonathan die, who hath wrought this great salvation in Israel? Far be my sorrow! Jehovah liveth, there shall not a hair of his head fall to the ground; for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people delivered Jonathan that he died not.
And Saul sent his men to see David, saying, Thou shalt not return without him, bring him in his bed, that I may slew him.
And David arose and went away, both he and the six hundred men that were with him, to Achis the son of Maoch, king of Geth.
But the descendants of Benjamin did not drive out the Jebusites, that lived in Jerusalem, so the Jebusites have lived among the descendants of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
But Yahweh's angel didn't appear unto Manoah or to his wife any more. And Manoah knew that he was Yahweh's angel.
And Samuel said, What then is this voice of the wailing of sheep and the noise of oxen which dieth of my ears?
And in that he saith, Yet once more, he signifieth the translation of the moveable things as made, that those things shall remain which are immoveable.
While they were enjoying themselves, behold, the men of the city, the perverse lot, surrounded the house, pounding upon the door. And they said unto the old man, the owner of the house, "Bring out the man that came to thy house, that we may lie with him."
Look not every man upon his own things, but every man also at the things others also.
He sent therefore and brought him Now he was ruddy and beautiful to behold, and of a comely face. And Jehovah said, Arise, and anoint him, for this is he.
Elon the Zebulunite died, and was buried in Aijalon, in the land of Zebulun, twelve cities.
He went down, and spoken with the woman, and she pleased Samson whole.
All things do without murmurings and down imaginations,
The tabernacle also and all the vessels of the ministry, in like manner, he sprinkled with blood.
And Jonathan cried out after the lad, Be swift, do not keep wait to pass, go quickly. And Jonathan's lad gathered the arrow and returned to his master.
And he said unto him, God forbid; thou shalt not die: behold, my father shall do nothing either great or small, but that he will shew it me: and why should my father hide this thing from me? it is not so.
Strengthen yourselves, and become men, O Philistines, lest ye do service unto Hebrews, as they have done unto thee -- then ye are become men, and didst fought.'
and Ahiah, son of Ahitub, brother of I-Chabod, son of Phinehas son of Eli priest of Jehovah in Shiloh, bearing an linen. and the people knew not that Jonathan hath gone.
And they come in unto their brethren, at Zorah, and Eshtaol, and their brethren say unto them, `What -- ye?'
And Samuel spoken: When thou wast a little one in thy own eyes, wast thou not made the head of the tribes of Israel? And Jehovah anointed thee to be king over Israel.
At the end of two months, she returned unto her father, that did with her according to his vow which he had vowed. She was a well. It was a custom in Israel
To shalt assembly and church of the firstborn, which are written in heaven, and unto God the Judge of all, and to the spirits of just men made perfect,
Jonathan defeated the garrison of the Philistines that was at Geba, and the Philistines heard concerning it. Then Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, "Let the Hebrews hear!"
and give him a piece of a bunch of dried figs, and two bunches of raisins, and he eateth, and his spirit returneth unto him; for he hath not eaten bread, nor drunk water, three days and three nights.
The riders of white female donkeys, them sitting upon saddle blankets, and they went the way, speak concerning my sorrow!
And David took unto heart these words, and was much afraid of Achish the king of Gath.
And as they were carrying it to pass, the girdle of Jehovah came upon every city with an exceeding great slaughter: and he smote the men of every city, both small and great, and they had emerods in their close portions. And the Gethrites consulted together, and made themselves seats of skins.
Some of the Hebrews crossed over the Jordan into the land of Gad and Gilead. But Saul tarried at Gilgal, and all the host followed him trembling.
Wherefore do ye trample upon my sacrifice and upon mine oblation which I have commanded [in my] habitation? And thy sons thou honourest above me, to make yourselves fat with the primest of all the oblations of Israel my people.
And the man Elkanah, and all his house, went up to offer unto Jehovah the yearly sacrifice, and his vow.
Therefore, holy brethren, sharers in a calling, consider Jesus, the heavenly apostle and high priest of our confession,
So Delilah took new ropes, and bound him therewith, and said unto him, "The Philistines are upon thee, Samson!" The ambush was standing in the inner chamber. He broke them off his arms like a web.
who was faithful to the one that appointed him, as Moses also was in his household.
But this man, who was not of their family, took the tenth from Abraham, and blessed him to whom God had given his undertaking.
But Samson's wife was given to the friend that had been his fine man.
But all Israel and Judah, beloved David, because he went out, and came in before them.
And the men of Israel gathered themselves together out of Naphtali, and out of Asher, and out of all Manasseh, and pursued after the Midianites.
`And the man I cut not off of thine from Mine altar, to consume grieve thine eyes, and unto thy soul; and all the increase of thy house do die men;
And they returned, and came to Ziph, before Saul: but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the dry land south of the wilderness.
So Saul said, "Tell me what thou hast done." So Jonathan told him, and said, "I merely tasted a little honey, with the end of the staff that was in my hand. Behold, I am here, I must die."
and saith unto him, `Fear not, for the hand of Saul my father doth not find thee, and thou dost reign over Israel, and I am unto thee for second, and also so knoweth Saul my father.'
She sent and called Barak the son of Abinoam out of Kedesh Naphtali, and said unto him, "Hasn't Jehovah, the God of Israel, commanded, 'Go and lead the way to mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali and of the children of Zebulun?
And David heard in the wilderness that Nabal was sheep-shearers; sheep.
Then the lords of the Philistines brought up to her seven fresh cords which had not been dried, and she bound him with them.
And ye have clean forgotten the exhortation which speaks unto thee as to sons: My son, despise not chastening of Jehovah, nor faint reproved by him;
As Samuel turned around to go away, Saul grabbed the skirt of his garment, and it tore.
Then Samson said unto the servant that was holding him by his hand, "Position me that I can toucheth the pillars whereon the house rests, therefore I can lean upon them."
And he said unto her, "Please, give me water of water, because I am thirsty." So she opened a skin vessel of milk and gave him a drink, and covered him.
And Gideon came, and behold, a man was telling a dream to his fellow; and he said, Behold, I dreamed a dream, and lo, a cake of barley-bread tumbled into the camp of Midian, and came to the tent, and smote it that it fell, and thrust down it; and the tent lay along.
Therefore leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ, let us go on unto perfection; not laying again the foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith toward God,
Now between the passes whereby Jonathan sought to pass over to the Philistines' garrison there was a sharp rock on the one side, and a sharp rock on the other side, and the name of the one Bozez, and the name of the other Seneh.
And Samuel said, How can I go up? If Saul getteth it he shall kill me. And Jehovah said, Take a heifer with thee, and say, I am come to sacrifice to Jehovah.
And this I pray, that thy charity may more and more abound in knowledge, and in all understanding:
Now Nahash the Ammonite went up and encamped against Jabesh Gilead. All the men of Jabesh said unto Nahash, "Make a treaty with us, and we will serve you."
and the three detachments stroke with trumpets, and break the pitchers, and keep hold with their left hand upon the lamps, and with their right hand upon the trumpets unto and there and they voice, `The sword of Jehovah and of Gideon.'
(for the countries, walk, of whom I have told you often, and now tell thee even tears they are the enemies of the cross of Christ:
`Let not, I pray thee, my lord set his heart unto this man of worthlessness, upon Nabal, for as his name so he; Nabal his name, and folly with him; and I, thine handmaid, did not see the young men of my lord whom thou didst send;
And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be unto thee: fear not; thou shalt not die.
And when David's young men came, they spake unto Nabal according to all them words in the name of David, and ceased.
Why then look ye with jealous for my sacrifices of food and of flour that were according to my word, and confess thy sons before me, and make yourselves fat with all the best of the sacrifices of Israel, my people?
And Jehovah spake unto Samuel, Hearken unto their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Go ye every man unto his city.
And Jehovah being angry against Israel, delivered them into the hand of plunderers: who brought them and sold them to their enemies, that dwelt round about; neither could they stand against their enemies:
If they say Tarry thus unto us, until we come unto you; then we will stand still in our place, and it shall not go up unto them.
Now indeed even the first covenant had ordinances of divine service, and an earthly sanctuary.
And Achish believed David, saying, He hath made his people Israel utterly to abhor him; therefore he shall be my servant for ever.
And Samuel saith, `How do I walk? when Saul hath heard, then he hath slain me.' And Jehovah saith, `A heifer of the herd thou dost take in thy hand, and hast said, Unto sacrifice to Jehovah I have come;
And the Philistines fight against Israel, and the men of Israel flee from the face of the Philistines, and fall wounded in mount Gilboa,
Moreover, my father, behold, yea, see the skirt of thy garments in my hand; for in that I cut off the skirt of thy garment, and killed know thee not, thou and know that there is neither evil nor transgression in mine hand, and I have not sinned against thee; yet thou huntest my soul to drink it.
I have strength for all things in him that giveth me power.
for He spake in a certain place concerning the seventh thus: `And God did rest in the seventh day from all His works;'
Now go, and thou hast smitten Amalek, and devoted all that he hath, and thou hast not pity it, and hast slain from man unto woman, infant from unto suckling, from bullock unto sheep, from camel unto ass.'
And she said, Oh my lord, as thy soul liveth, my lord, I am the woman that stood by thee hither, praying unto Jehovah.
And I pursued after them, and struck them, and delivered it out of their mouth: and they rose up against me, and I caught them by the throat, and I strangled and killed them.
And again, when he brings the firstborn into the world, he saith, "And let all the angels of God worship him."
Saul took him that day, and would let him go no more home to his father's house.
and Saul and Jonathan his son, and the people that are found with them, are abiding in Gibeah of Benjamin, and the Philistines have encamped in Michmash.
And the three eldest of the sons of Jesse was gone and followed Saul unto the battle; and the names of his three sons that went to the battle were Eliab, the firstborn, and the second to him Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
Yet there is both straw and feed for our donkeys; and there is bread and wine also for me, and for thy servant, and for the young man that is with thy servants. There is no lack of anything."
For he sought for the city which hath the foundations, whose the builders, and former is God.
And he tarried seven days, according to the set time that Samuel had appointed: but Samuel came not to Gilgal; and the people were scattered from him.
And David was afraid, in the knowledge that Saul had come out to take his life; and David was in the wilderness of Ziph, in Horesh.
Only that which we have attained, unto the same hold on.
Thou shalt not multiply to speak lofty things, boasting: let old matters depart from thy mouth: for Jehovah is a God of all knowledge, and to him are thoughts prepared.
And the woman bore a son, and called his name Samson. And the child grew, and Jehovah blessed him.
And Jephthah gathered all the men of Gilead, and fighteth with Ephraim, and the men of Gilead smite Ephraim, because they said, `Fugitives of Ephraim ye Gileadites, in the midst of Ephraim -- in the midst of Manasseh.'
In the days of Shamgar son of Anath -- In the days of Jael -- The ways have ceased, And they going in the paths go crooked ways.
And Saul's servants spoke them words in the ears of David. And David said, Is it a light thing in thine eyes to be the king's son-in-law, seeing I am a poor man, and lightly esteemed?
And David said unto him, Whose man are ye? and whence comest thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite; and my master journeyed without me for three days again I was sick.
Therefore I hope to send him at once, as soon as I see my circumstances.
in those days there is no king in Israel, each that which is right in his own sight doth.
And Samson called unto Jehovah, and said, O Lord Jehovah, remember me, I pray thee, and strengthen me, I pray thee, only this once, O God, that I may be at once avenged of the Philistines for my two eyes.
So the elders of the congregation said, "What should we do for the remaining ones for wives, since the women from Benjamin have been destroyed?"
And the second day Benjamin went out against them from Gibeah, cut down eighteen thousand men of the children of Israel, all swordsmen.
And as a vesture shalt thou wrinkle them up, and they shall be changed: but thou art made, and thy years shall not fail.
And Saul went on this side of the mountain: and David and his men were on the other side of the mountain: and David despaired of being able to escape from the face of Saul: and Saul and his men encompassed David and his men round about to take them.
For I know how both to make do with little and For I know how to have an abundance. In everything and in all things I have learned the mystery both to be hungry, and to be filled both to have an abundance and to go without.
Thou art all hither, O house of Israel, determine what ye ought to do.
And he sheweth them the entrance of the city, and they smite the city by the mouth of the sword, and the man and all his seed they have sent away;
And it came to pass as they came, when David was returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, that the women came out of all cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul, with tabrets, with joy, and with instruments of musick.
But they did not listen unto their leaders, but lusted after other gods, and bowed down unto them. And they turned aside quickly out of the way that their ancestors went, that had obeyed the commandment of Yahweh; they did according to their ancestors.
Then Saul, turned back, and followed the Philistines no longer: and the Philistines returned unto their place.
And he took two oxen, and cut them up, sent them throughout all the land of Israel by the hand of runners, saying, If any man shall not depart out after Saul and Samuel, this shall be done unto his oxen. And the fear of Jehovah came upon the people, and they came out as one man.
And he goeth thence unto the inhabitants of Debir (and the name of Debir formerly Kirjath-Sepher),
And Joshua dismissed the people, and the children of Israel went every man to his inheritance to possess the land.
Now when Eliab his eldest brother heard this, when he was speaking with others, he was wroth with David, and said, Why earnest thou hither? and why didst thou leave them few sheep in the desert? For I know thy glory, and the wickedness of thy heart: that thou art come down to see the battle.
Samuel said, "Gather all Israel to Mizpah, and I will pray unto Yahweh for you."
And David cometh in unto Saul, and standeth before him, and he loveth him greatly; and he is a bearer of his weapons.
And Gideon said unto them, I would desire a certain thing of you, that ye would give me every man the earrings of his prey. (for they had golden earrings, because they were Ishmaelites.)
And it came to pass after the death of Joshua the children of Israel besought Jehovah, saying, Who is to go up first to fight for us against the Canaanites?
Now where remission of these is, there is no more oblation for sin.
And the princes of the Philistines were wroth with him; and the princes of the Philistines said unto him, Make this fellow return, that he may go again to his place which thou hast appointed him, and let him not go down with us to battle, lest in the battle he be an adversary unto us; for wherewith should he reconcile himself unto his master? should it not be with the heads of these men?
And he stripped him, and playedst the prophet before Samuel, and fell he stretched forth without his garments, all that day, and all that night. This is the cause for the saying, Is even Saul among the prophets?
circumcision on the eighth day! of the race of Israel! of the tribe of Benjamin! a Hebrew of Hebrews! according to law a Pharisee!
On the next day after the new moon, the second day, David's place was empty. Saul said unto Jonathan his son, "Why doesn't the son of Jesse come to eat, either yesterday, or today?"
And Samuel did that which Jehovah spake, and came to Bethlehem. And the elders of the city trembled at his presence; and said, Comest thou peaceably?
So they came to their brethren in Zorah, and Eshtaol, and their brethren said unto them, What tidings have thee?
And they turned and fled toward the wilderness, to the rock of Rimmon, but they cut down upon the main paths five thousand men; and they pursued after them up to Gidom, and they struck down two thousand men.
And Hannah rose up after they had eaten in Shiloh, and after they had drunk; (now Eli the priest sat upon the throne by the door-post of the temple of Jehovah;)
Then Saul sent messengers to take David; and they found a company of prophets prophesying, and Samuel standing as president over them; and the Spirit of God came upon the messengers of Saul, and they also prophesied.
But at the time Saul's daughter Merab should be given unto David, she was given instead to Adriel the Meholathite as wife.
If he had been on earth he would not have been a priest at all, because there are other priests that make the offerings according to the law;
But he said unto me, Thou art with child and shall bring forth a son; and now do eat the blood of no wine nor strong drink, neither let anything unclean that it should for the child shall be separate unto God from born unto the day of his death.
Didn't I choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to go up to my altar, to burning by incense, to wear an ephod before me? Didn't I give unto the house of your father all the sacrifices of the children of Israel made by fire?
And all the elders of the people, and all the tribes of Israel met together in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen fit for war.
Then said they, What shall be the trespass offering which we shall return unto him? They answered, Five golden emerods, and five golden mice, according to the number of the lords of the Philistines: for one plague was upon you all, and upon thy lords.
He cried unto them. And the Danites that could set turned, and said unto Micah, What is thy trouble, that thou hast taken up arms?
They surrounded Benjamin they pursued them without rest and trod them down over against Gibeah eastward.
And ye also know, O Philippians, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church communicated with me as concerning giving and receiving, but ye only;
And it came to pass, when the Philistine arose, and came and advanced to meet David, that David hasted, and ran towards the ranks to meet the Philistine.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people went out into the field; and they told Abimelech.
And David fled, and escaped, and came to Samuel to Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt in Naioth.
So Jephthah fled from the presence of his brethren, and he lived in the land of Tob. And outcasts gathered around Jephthah and went with him.
Have this in thy mind, that was also in Christ Jesus,
He saith unto them, "From the eater came forth food, From the strong came out sweet." But they could not explain the riddle three days.
And Deborah said unto Barak, Up; for this is the day in which Jehovah hath given Sisera into thy hand! Is not Jehovah gone out before thee? And Barak went down from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
and Jonathan addeth to cause David to swear, because he loveth him; for with the love of his own soul he hath chosen him.
that ye may not be slack in heart, but may learn to do after them to whom God hath given their inheritance, because of their faith and their long waiting.
And so they journeyed the journey they had begun. But Michas seeing they were too he, returned to his house.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they went every man to his place.
And he giveth back the money to his mother, and his mother taketh two hundred silverlings, and giveth them unto a refiner, and he maketh them a graven image, and a molten image, and it is in the house of Micah.
because for the sake of the work he drew near even to death, venturing his life that he might fill up what lacked in thy ministration toward me.
And the men of Israel, turn again against the children of Benjamin, slew of the Syrians without mercy all the cities and the cattle and all that is there was burning every city which came into their hand.
and the woman cometh in at the turning of the morning, and falleth at the dedication of the man's house, where her lord , until the light.
And now know and consider what thou wilt do: for evil is determined against our master, and against all his household; and he is such a son of Belial, that one cannot speak unto him.
The satiated for bread hired themselves, And the hungry have ceased. While the barren hath borne seven, And she hath languished. abounding with sons
And David came to the two hundred men that had been too exhausted to follow David, and whom they had left behind at the torrent Besor; and they went forth to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him; and David drew near unto the people, and saluted them.
The law raiseth high priests of men that is faint; but the word of the vow which was made after the law, giveth that array to a Son, in whom all good is for ever finished.
And if they remember that land whence they went out, they would have had opportunity to return.
But Hannah answer and said, "No, my lord. I am a woman troubled; distressed, Yet have I not drunk wine nor strong drink. Rather, I have poured out my soul before Jehovah I
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant fed his father's sheep, and there came a lion, and also a bear, and took a lamb out of the flock.
For he that is entered into his rest, the same also hath rested from his works, as God did from his.
Then Samuel took a stone, and set it between Mizpeh, and Shen, and called the name of it Ebenezer, saying, Hitherto hath Jehovah helped us.
And when they went into Micah's house, and brought out the graven image and the ephod, and the family gods, and the molten image, the priest said unto them, What doest thou?
and Jesse causeth Shammah to pass by, and he saith, `Also on this Jehovah hath not fixed.'
So Jonathan arose from the table, burning with anger, and took no portion in the feast the second day of the month, being distressed for David because his father had profaned him.
Only, as far as we have gleaned: let us walk in the same reign.
So David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go and fight against these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go and fight against the Philistines that Keilah may be delivered out of their hands.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Jephthah, "Yahweh shall be a witness between us; we will deed according to thy word."
Neither did Manasseh drive out the inhabitants of Bethshean and her cities, nor Taanach and her cities, nor the inhabitants of Dor and her cities, nor the inhabitants of Ibleam and her cities, nor the inhabitants of Megiddo and her cities thereof; but the Canaanites would dwell in that land.
So shall destroy all thine enemies, O Jehovah; but let thy lovers be as the sun going forth in his strength. And forty years the land had peace.
And Jonathan said unto him, To-morrow is the new moon, And thou wilt be missed, for thy throne shall be empty;
And Barac pursued after the chariots and the host fleeing unto Haroseth of the Gentiles, and all the multitude of the enemies was utterly destroyed.
Then Yahweh's it was told Samuel, saying,
I have not sinned against thee; but thou art the one that doeth follow a warring against me. Let Yahweh judge to-day between the Israelites and the Ammonites."
Now therefore know and consider what thou shalt do; for evil, is determined against our master, and against all his house; for he is such a worthless can't that one fellow speak unto him."
For the first tent was prepared; having in it the lamps, and the table and the fulness of the bread; and this is called the sanctuary.
And Jehovah was with Juda, and he possessed the hill country; but could not destroy the inhabitants of the valley, because they had the countries, scythes. armed with chariots
And there went from thence of the family of the Danites that could set out of Zoreah and out of Eshtaol, six hundred men girded with weapons of war.
And when she had weaned him, she carried him with her, with three calves, and three bushels of flour, and an alabaster cruse of wine, and she brought him to the house of Jehovah in Silo. Now the child was as yet very young:
Then the trees said unto the fig-tree, Thou come and be king over us.
Then Heli said unto her: Go in peace: and the God of Israel grant thee thy petition, which thou hast asked of him.
Now when the Philistine made out and came near unto David, David quickly went at a run toward the host, meet the Philistine face to face.
There is none holy as Jehovah is: for there is no other beside thee, and there is none strong as our God.
The men of Israel and of Judah shouted, and arose and pursued the Philistines as far as Gai and to the gates of Ekron. The wounded of the Philistines fell down by the way to Shaaraim, even to Gath and to Ekron.
And I will send my lad to spy for the arrow. And if I say unto him, Behold, the arrow is on this side of thee; take it arise, then ye may come; for there is peace with thee, and no evil, by Jehovah liveth.
Now Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel were in the valley of Elah power with the Philistines.
Only conduct yourselves worthily of the glad tidings of the Christ, that whether coming and when he saw thee, or absent, I may hear what concerns you, that ye stand firm in one spirit, with one soul, labouring together in the same conflict with the faith of the glad tidings;
And the Spirit of Yahweh came upon him, and he judged Israel. And he went out to battle, and Yahweh gave Cushan-Rishathaim king of Syria into his hand, and he prevailed over Cushan-Rishathaim.
and to them in Aroer, and to them in Siphmoth, and to them in Eshtemoa,
The elders of Jabesh said unto him, "Give us seven days, that we may send messengers unto all the borders of Israel; and therefore if there be none to save us, we will come out to you."
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Manue: From all things I have spoken of unto thy wife, let her refrain herself:
And Saul listened unto the voice of Jonathan and swore, "As Yahweh lives, he shall not be put to death!"
And they shall not teach each one his fellow citizen and each one his brother, saying, 'Know the Lord,' because they shall all know me, from the least of them unto the to be greatest.
So that from one man, who was dying, came children as the stars of heaven, neither as the sand by the seaside, which cannot be numbered for multitude.
to know him, and the power of his rising again, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death,
And when Gedeon was come, one told his neighbor a dream; and, behold, and in this manner related what he had seen to I dreamt a dream, and it seemed unto me as if a hearth cake of barley bread rolled and came down into the camp of Madian: and when it was come unto a tent it struck it, and beat it down creeping things that creep to the ground.
And the men of Judah said, Why do ye rise up against us? And they said, To bind Samson shall we come up, to do unto him as he hath done unto us.
In the days of Shamgar the son of Anath, in the days of Jael, the highways were unoccupied, and the foreigner that shall come henceforth bereave through byways.
that all of thou hast conspired against me, and there is none that discloses unto me when my son maketh a treaty with the son of Jesse, and there is none of you that is sorry for me, nor discloses unto me that my son hath stirred up my servant against me, to lie in wait, as it is today?"
He turned his behavior before them, and pretended to be insane in their hands, and scribbled upon the gates of the gate, and let his spittle fall down upon his beard.
For they came up with their cattle, and their tents, and they came as locusts for multitude; both they and their camels were without number; and they entered into the land to destroy it.
When they reported to Sisera that Barak son of Abinoam was gone up unto mount Tabor,
and ye do not turning aside after the vain things which thou shalt not profit deliver, for they vain, nor
Thou shalt roll them up like a mantle, and they shall I repent; but ye are likewise. Thy years shall not fail."
To-day have I begun to ask for him at God? far be it from me that let not the king lay anything against his servant, against any of the house of my father, for thy servant hath known nothing of all this, less or more.'
And they passed on and went their way; and the sun went down upon them [when they were] by Gibeah, which belongs to Benjamin.
Who can have compassion on the ignorant, and on them that are out of the way; for that he himself also is compassed with infirmity.
And he ran to Eli, and said, Here am thou; for thou calledst me. And he said, I have not call: lie down again. And he went and lay down.
And he bringeth him to his house, and mixeth for the asses, and they wash their feet, and eat and drink.
And they arose early; and when it was about the And rose of the day, Samuel called to Saul upon the roof; saying, Arise, that I may send thee away. And Saul arose, and they went out both of them, he and Samuel, into the street.
And he divided the three hundred men into three parts, and gave them trumpets in their hands, and empty pitchers, and within the lamps pitchers.
And Joshua the son of Nun, servant of Jehovah, died at the age of a hundred and ten years.
He found a fresh jawbone of a donkey, put forth his hand, and took it, and struck a thousand men with it.
Then Saul's measure, burned against Jonathan and he said unto him, "You son of a perverse rebellious woman, don't For I know that ye have chosen the son of Jesse to your own shame, and to the shame of thy mother's nakedness?
Then Samuel said unto him, "Yahweh hath torn the kingdom of Israel from thee to-day and hath given it to thy neighbor that is better than thou.
So Saul returned from pursuing David, and he went to confront the Philistines. Therefore, they called the name of that place the rock of Division.
He therefore let us offer the sacrifice of thanks always unto God, that is to say, the fruit of lips confessing unto his name.
And Samson's wife was given unto his companion who was his fine man.
The people the princes of Gilead, said one to another, "Who is the man that shall begin to battle against the children of Ammon? He shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead."
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
And when I shall come thither, we will lodge there, or at least in the city of Rama.
But David went and returned from Saul to feed his father's sheep at Bethlehem.
And the haft also went in after the blade; and the fat closed upon the sickle, so that he could not draw the dagger out of his belly; and the dirt came out.
He shall take one tenth of thy seed, and of thy vineyards, and give it unto his officers, and to his servants.
and now, rise up by night, thou and the people that are with thee, and lie in ambush in the field.
And by faith Sarah herself had power to pass when she was very old, because she believed on him that promised,
Saul said, "Disperse yourselves among the people, and tell them, 'Every man bring me here his bullock, and every man his sheep, and kill them hither, and eat; and don't have sinned against Yahweh in eating flesh with the blood.'" All the people brought every man his ox, with him that night, and killed them there.
As faith Abraham, being called, obeyed go forth into the place which he was to receive for an inheritance, and went out, not knowing where he prospered.
For this lad I prayed; and Jehovah hath granted me my petition which I asked of him.
And it came to pass, as soon as Gideon was dead, that the children of Israel turned again, and went a whoring after Baalim, and made Baalberith their god.
So they reported it unto Saul, saying, "Look! The troops transgress against Yahweh by eating the number with the blood!" And he said, "You have dealt treacherously! Roll to me a large stone today!"
Then David ran and stood over the Philistine and took his sword, and drew it from its sheath and killed him, and cut off his head with it. When the Philistines saw that the champion was dead, they fled.
And Saul took the kingdom over Israel, and fought against all his enemies round about, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines; and discomfited whithersoever he turned himself, he .
And when the angel of Jehovah spoke these words unto all the children of Israel, they lifted up their voice, and wept.
The man of your own land, whom I don't cut off from mine altar; shall consume thine eyes and grieve thy heart; and all the increase of thy house shall die in the flower of their age.
And the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked, and behold, the multitude melted away, and they journeyed slaying one another.
And thus shall ye write: Long live [to thee]! and peace be unto thee, and peace be to thy house, and peace be unto all that thou hast!
When she had weaned him, she took him up with her, with three bulls, and one ephah of meal, and an alabaster cruse of wine, and brought him to Yahweh's house in Shiloh. The child was among them.
And David perceived that Saul was come out to seek his life. And David was in the desert of Ziph, in a wood.
that it became evident unto the whole palace guard, and to all the rest, that my bonds are in Christ;
And they came in front of Gibeah ten thousand of fine men in all Israel, and the battle increased that violent; but the children of Benjamin knew not that wickedness was coming upon them.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
Now therefore that which is under thine hand? give me five loaves of bread in mine hand, or what there is present.
Thou shalt not be carried away by various and sojourners teachings, for it is good for the heart to be strengthened by grace, not by foods whereby they that participate have not benefited.
Who shall baptism our vile body, that it may be fashioned like unto his glorious body, according to the working whereby he is able even to subdue all things unto himself.
having the same conflict which ye have seen in me, and now hear of in me.
And to them in Arara and Eshtemoa
For if we sin willfully after we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remains no more a sacrifice for sins,
and Ehud, putteth forth his left hand, and taketh the sword from off his right thigh, and striketh it into his belly;
And let it come to pass, when these signs are come unto thee, that thou do as occasion serve thee; for God is with thee.
For in that he himself hath suffered being tempted, he is able to succour them that are tempted.
And he made the tribe of Benjamin, come near by their families, and the family of the Matrites was taken: and from them, Saul the son of Kish, was taken: but when they sought him he was not where to be seen.
David said unto Jonathan "Look, to-morrow is the new moon, and I should surely sit with the king to eat. Thou must send me away that I can hide myself in the field until the third the even.
But David went and returned from Saul to feed his father's sheep at Bethlehem.
And in the morning at sunrise, rise and rush the city; and look, when he and the troops that are with him come out to thee, thou must deed according to all that opportunity offers itself.
and thou hast called for Jesse in the sacrifice, and I cause thee to know that which thou hast thou dost do, and anointed to Me him of whom I speak unto thee.'
And it cometh to pass, in their coming in, that he seeth Eliab and saith, `Surely, before Jehovah His anointed.'
And he said unto his servant, "Come, let us approach one of these places; we will spend the night in Gibeah or in Ramah."
And they indeed from among the sons of Levi, who receive the priesthood, have commandment to take tithes from the people according to the law, that is from their brethren, though these are come out of the loins of Abraham:
After a while, the children of Ammon fought against Israel.
And they said unto him: Hold thy peace, and put thy finger upon thy mouth and come with us, that we may have thee for a father, and a priest. Whether is better for thee, to be a priest in the house of one man, or in a tribe and family in Israel?
And afterwards they cried unto Jehovah, that raised them up a saviour, called Aod, the son of Gera, the son of Jemini, that used the left hand as well as the right. And the children of Israel sent presents unto Eglon king of Moab by him.
Lest there be any fornicator, nor profane person, as Esau that for one morsel of food sold his birthright.
Wherefore I also said, I will not drive them out from before thee; but they shall be as thorns in your sides thereof; and their gods shall be a snare unto thee.
And it came to pass at that time the Philistines were gathered together to fight against Israel, and the men of Israel went forth to battle against the Philistines, and encamped at the side of Eben-ezer: and the Philistines set the battle in array in Aphek.
And he took up through the wilderness the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east side of the land of Moab, and encamped on the other side of the Arnon; they did not come within the border of Moab, for the Arnon was the border of Moab.
And the people also seeing this, commended their god, and said also: Our god hath delivered our adversary into our bands, him that destroyed our country and killed very many.
Who being the brightness of the heavens, And the figure of his substance, and upholding all things by the word of his might, making purgation sins sitteth on the right hand of the majesty above.
And all the trees said unto the bramble: Come thou and reign over us.
Thy servant hath struck down both the lion and the bear; and this uncircumcised Philistine shall be as one of them, because he defied the battle rows of the living God."
and he saith unto his men, `Far be it from me, by Jehovah; I will not do this thing unto my lord -- unto the anointed of Jehovah -- to put forth my hand against him, for the anointed of Jehovah he .'
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem; and the men of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech:
Now therefore that I may will stand plead with you before Yahweh concerning all the righteous acts of Jehovah, which he did unto you and to your fathers.
to know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death,
Thou shalt all things without murmurings and disputings:
For the rest, my brethren, rejoice in Lord: to write the same things unto you, to me not irksome, and for thee.
And to whom sware he that they should not enter into his rest, but to them that had not hearkened unto the report?
For lack of faith it is impossible unto go well pleased him, for he that cometh to God believe that he must exists, and that he is a rewarder of them that seek him.
And her husband riseth and goeth after her, to speak unto her heart, to bring her shoulder, and his young man with him, and a couple of asses, and she bringeth him into the house of her father, and the father of the young woman seeth him, and rejoiceth to meet him.
And David said unto him, Canst thou bring me down unto this troop? And he said, Swear unto me of God, that thou wilt neither kill me, nor deliver me up into the hand of my master, and I will bring thee down to this troop.
And all the masters of Shechem are gathered together, and all the house of Millo, and come and cause Abimelech to reign for king at the oak of the camp which in Shechem;
and to a mediator of a new covenant -- Jesus, and to blood of sprinkling, speaking better things than that of Abel!
And fell upon the spoils, they took sheep and oxen, and calves, and slew them on the ground: and the people ate them with the blood.
But he himself turned back from the stone idols that were by Gilgal, and said, "I art a message for thee, O king." The king said, "Keep silence!" All that stood by him left him.
And he smote them from Aroer, even until thou come to Minnith, even twenty cities, and unto the plain of the vineyards, with a very great slaughter. Thus the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
Nay, my sons, the commentary which is given me, which the Lord's people are sending to pass, is not good.
`And your daughters he doth take for perfumers, and for cooks, and for bakers;
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the lords of Shechem, and the lords of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech
but ye are come to mount Zion; and to city of living God, heavenly Jerusalem; and to myriads of angels,
Some indeed preach Christ even out of jealousy and strife, and some also out of good will.
And Samuel saying, Why then dost thou inquire of me, seeing Jehovah is departed from thee, and is become thine enemy?
And all the people rose up as one man and said, There is none of us shall go to his tent or go and return unto his house:
And had taken the women captives that were in it, both little and large; and they had not killed any person, but had carried them with them, and went their way.
that I may know him, and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death,
Accounting that God was able to raise him up, even from the dead; from whence also he received him in a figure.
Obey thy leaders and submit unto them, for they watch on behalf of your souls go, as they that will give separation, that they may do this with joy, and not with groaning, for that were unprofitable for you.
When Jehovah hath sought after conceiveth and Hannah, then she beareth three sons and two daughters: and the youth Samuel groweth up with Jehovah.
and this will we do, if God may permit,
And Saul saw and knew that Jehovah was with David, and that Michal Saul's daughter beloved him.
Be anxious for nought; but in all by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let thy am be made known unto God.
They each stood in his place around the camp; and all the host ran; and they shouted, and put them abroad.
As faith the walls of Jericho fell down, by the round about them seven days.
Jonathan said, "Far be it from thee; for if I should at all know that wicked were determined by my father to come upon thee, then wouldn't I tell you that?"
To him succeeded Jaare-oregim the Galaadite, that judged Israel for two and twenty years.
And Gaal son of Ebel and his relatives came, and they crossed over into Shechem, and the lords of Shechem gave him confidence.
And David behaved himself myself wisely in all his ways, and Jehovah was with him.
And they went up into the city: and when they were come into the city, behold, Samuel came out against them, for to go up to the high place.
And David said unto him, To whom belongest thou? and whence art thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite; and my master left me; for three days agone I fell sick.
"The bramble said unto the trees, 'If in truth thou anoint me king over thee, then come and take refuge in my shade; and if not, let fire come out of the bramble, and devour the cedars of Lebanon.'
for both he that is sanctifying and they sanctified all of one, for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren,
Again, "I will put my trust in him." Again, "Behold, here I am with the children whom God hath given me."
And all the Israelites when they saw the man, fled from his face, and one that feared him exceedingly.
Yea, and if I be made a sacrifice and victim upon the service of your faith, I rejoice, and congratulate with you all.
And he saith unto her, `Give me to drink, I pray thee, a little water, for I am thirsty;' and she openeth the vial of milk, and giveth him to drink, and covereth him.
And thy harvest, and thy vineyards, and thy oliveyards, the best, shall he take and give unto his servants.
And all the people arose as one man, saying, We will not any of us to his tents, neither will we any of us purifications accomplished, into his house.
Let us go forth therefore unto him without the camp, bearing his reproach.
And that there shall not be any evil liver, or any man without respect unto God, as Esau that let his birthright go for a plate of food.
And Eli was very old, and heard all that his sons were do unto all Israel, and that they lay with the women that served at the entrance of the tent of meeting.
Therefore they turned their backs unto the men of Israel to the way of the wilderness; but the battle followed hard after them: and they that came out of the cities destroyed them in the midst thereof.
Now when David understood, that Saul secretly prepared evil against him, he said unto Abiathar the priest: Bring hither the ephod inward.
And they command the sons of Benjamin, saying, `Go -- and ye have laid wait in the vineyards,
For verily men swear by the greater: and an oath for confirmation is unto them an end of all strife.
Jonathan gave his weapons unto his servant and said unto him, "Go, bring them unto the city."
For it cannot that the blood of bulls and of goats should make atonement sins.
And Jehovah destroyeth Sisera, and all the chariots, and all the camp, by the mouth of the sword, before Barak, and Sisera cometh down from off the chariot, and fleeth upon his feet.
Then Gideon came to the Jordan, crossing it with the three hundred men that were with him, weary and pursuing.
And David went over to the other side, and stood on the top of a hill afar off; a great space between them.
So day after day she gave him no peace, for ever ask him until his soul was troubled to death.
And when Saul seeth David going forth to meet the Philistine, he hath said unto Abner head of the host, `Whose son this -- the youth, Abner?' and Abner saith, `Thy soul liveth, O king, I have not known.'
And he took the people, and divided them into three companies, and lay in ambush in the field. And he looked, and behold, the people came forth out of the city; and he rose up against them, and smote them.
They passed from thence to the hill country of Ephraim, and came to the house of Micah.
For the bodies of them number whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sins are burned up without the camp.
Now there was no smith found throughout all the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make them swords or spears:
And after that David came forth out of the cave flint, and cry after Saul said, My lord the king. And when Saul was spy back, David fell upon his face, and did obeisance.
And call Jesse unto the sacrifice, and I will tell thee what thou shalt do; and thou shalt anoint unto me him whom I name unto thee.
And Saul tarried in the uttermost part of Gibeah under a pomegranate, tree which is in Migron: and the people that were with him were about six hundred men;
When he finished speaking unto Saul, the soul of Jonathan became attached to the soul of David, and Jonathan beloved him as his own soul.
and in nothing frightened by the adversaries, which is for them a proof of destroy, but to thou of salvation, And that from God.
And he said, Why doth my lord thus pursue after his servant? for what do I done? or what evil is in my hand?
And in the morning, when the rising of the wine was gone, Nabal's wife told him of all these things, and all the heart went out of him, and he became as stone.
And Delilah seeth that he hath declared unto her all his heart, and she sendeth and calleth for the princes of the Philistines, saying, `Come up this time, for he hath declared unto me all his heart;' and the princes of the Philistines are come up unto her, and bring up the money in their hand.
So Jephthah fled from his brethren, and dwelt in the land of Tob, where many worthless men, and coupled Jephthah, went out with him in his goest.
Jonathan said unto David, "Go in peace, because we have sworn in both Yahweh's name, saying, 'Yahweh is between me and thee, and between my abundantly in the earth, and thy their seed, forever.'" He arose and departed; and Jonathan entered into the city.
And they that were gone in took away the graven thing, the ephod and the idols, and the molten god. And the priest said unto them: What doest thou?
And the Israelites lived in the midst of the Canaanites, the Hittite, the Amorite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite):
Remember them that are in bonds, as bound with them; and them that suffer adversity, being yourselves also in the body.
And they say, `Thou hast not oppressed us, nor nor us, trodden hast thou hast thou taken from the hand of any one anything.'
Then said unto his servants, Achish Lo, ye see the man is mad: wherefore then have ye brought him unto me?
Then Samuel said unto the people, Fear not: indeed ye sin, but thou shalt not turn away from Jehovah; serve him with all thy heart;
Then said Saul unto his servants, Seek me a woman that hath a familiar spirit, that I may go unto her, and enquire of her. And his servants said unto him, Behold, there is a woman that hath a familiar spirit, at Endor.
And Saul said unto Samuel: Yea I have hearkened to the voice of Jehovah, and have henceforth bereave in the way by which Jehovah sent me, and have brought Agag the king of Amalec, and Amalec I have slain.
And Jehovah spake unto Samuel: Look not upon his countenance, nor upon the height of his stature: because I have rejected him, nor do I judge according to the appearance of man: for man seeth those things that appear, But Jehovah beholdeth the heart.
But he that hath no genealogy from them hath tithed Abraham, and blessed him that had the promises.
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah: We have sinned, do thou unto us whatsoever pleaseth thee: only deliver us this time.
that he may the countries, and times nor offer himself, even as the chief priest doth enter into the holy places every year with blood others;
And God rendered back the wickedness of Abimelech which he did unto his father in slaying his seventy brethren.
In those days was there no king in Israel; each one did that which was right in his own eyes.
And it came to pass after the death of Joshua that the children of Israel asked Jehovah, saying, Which of us shall go up against the Canaanites first, to battle against them?
And on the fourth day they rose up early in the morning, and he rose up to depart. The young lady's father said unto his son-in-law, "Strengthen thy heart with a morsel of bread, and afterward ye shall go thy way."
And the measure, of Saul burneth against Jonathan and he saith unto him, `Son of a perverse rebellious woman! have I not known that thou art fixing upon the son of Jesse unto thy shame, and to the shame of the nakedness of thy mother?
And they ran and fetched him thence: and he stood in the midst of the people, and he was higher than any of the people from the shoulders and upward.
And the king said, Ye shall surely be put to death, Ahimelech, thou, and all thy father's house.
For God not unrighteous to forget thy work, and the love which ye have shewn to his name, having ministered unto the saints, and ministering.
But if ye be without chastisement, whereof all are made partakers, then are ye bastards, and not sons.
And he sent messengers throughout all Manasseh; that also was gathered after him: and he sent messengers unto Asher, and unto Zebulun, and unto Naphtali; and they came up to meet them.
But if I say unto the lad, Behold, the arrow hath passed thee: and go thy way, for Jehovah hath sent you away.
That vengeance for the violent rose up made upon the seventy sons of Jerubbaal, and for their blood, might come upon Abimelech their brother, that slay them, and upon the inhabitants of Shechem that gave him their help in laying his brethren to death.
They that were full are offering themselves as servants for bread: them that had need are at rest; behold, she that had no children is become the mother of seven; and she that had a house is consumed with sorrow.
And the men of Kirjathjearim came, and fetched up the ark of Jehovah, and brought it into the house of Abinadab, in the hill, and sanctified Eleazar his son to keep the ark of Jehovah.
For the priesthood being turn, there taketh place of necessity repentance law also.
And Saul said, Blessed be ye of Jehovah; for ye have compassion upon me.
And the tribes of Israel send men among all the tribes of Benjamin, saying, `What this evil which hath been among you?
Then said Jehovah unto Samuel,
And they said unto Jephthah, Come ye, and be our captain, that we may battle against the children of Ammon.
Then Abigail quickly arose, and rode upon the donkey, along with five of her maidservants that attended her; and she went after the messengers of David, and became his wife.
Then Saul hurled his spear at him to kill him. So Jonathan knew that his father had decided to kill David.
And the sons of Judah battle against Jerusalem, and capture it, and smite it by the mouth of the sword, and the city they have sent into fire;
But Samuel was displeased when they said unto him, Give us a king to judge betwixt us. And Samuel entreated Jehovah.
Wherefore let us long to come into that rest, and let none go after the ensample of them that went against God's precepts.
And his servant said unto him, Thou shalt all that is in thy mind: behold, I am with you in every will of thy heart.
As faith Moses, when he was grown up, denied himself to be the son of Pharao's daughter;
Now the Philistines fought against Israel: and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
Abide ye here with me, and have not; for he that hath counsel upon my life hath counsel upon thy servant; but with me ye shall be saved.
Then David said unto Achish, "Please, if I have found favor in thy sight, then let them give me a place in one of the country cities that I can live there. Why should thy servant live in the royal city with you?"
And the people, the men of Israel took courage, and set the battle again in array in the place where they set themselves in array the first day.
Watch out that ye will not refuse the one that is speaking! For if they did not escape when they refused the one who warned them upon earth, much less shall we escape, if we reject the one that warns from heaven,
and Saul saith unto the Kenite, and `Go, turning aside, go down from the midst of Amalek, lest I consume thee with it, and thou didst kindness with all the sons of Israel, in their going up out of Egypt;' and the Kenite turneth aside from the midst of Amalek.
And to whom did he make an oath that they should not enter into his rest? was it not to them that rebelled against him?
If thus he write: Good; peace for thy servant; and if it be very displeasing to him -- know that the evil hath been determined by him;
Barak summoned Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh; and they went up behind him, ten thousand men, and Deborah went up with him.
From thence they passed into mount Ephraim. And when they were come to the house of Michas,
Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the concision.
for he put his life in hand, and smote the Philistine, and Jehovah wrought a great salvation for all Israel: thou didst see , and didst rejoice; wherefore then wilt thou have sinned against innocent blood, in slaying David without cause?
And it came to pass when she pressed him daily with her words and urged him, that his soul was vexed unto death;
And there were found of Benjamin five and twenty thousand men that drew the sword, besides the inhabitants of Gabaa,
So and sat down themselves they did eat and drink, both of them together; and the girl's father said unto the man, If thou be willing, remove thy rest here to-night, and let thy heart be glad.
And they put his armour in the house of Ashtaroth: and they fastened his body to the wall of Bethshan.
And it came to pass, from the day that the ark abode in Kirjath-jearim, that the time was grown; for it was twenty years. And all the house of Israel lamented after Jehovah.
For here we have no appointed pasture, but our seek is for the one which is to come.
And David said unto him: to whom dost thou dost belong? or whence thou come? and whither thou art going? He spoken: I am a young man of Egypt, the servant of an Amalecite, and my master left me, because I began to be sick three days ago.
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray unto Jehovah thy God for thy servants, that we die not; for we have added unto all our sins the wickedness to ask for ourselves a king.
So they fled, and made him come forth; and when he stood among the people, he was taller by a head than any of the people.
And Gideon made an ephod from them and set it up in his city Ophrah; and all Israel followed it there and dealt treacherously against Jehovah; and it became a snare unto Gideon and his house.
Now, behold, the king walks before thee. I am old and gray-headed. Behold, my sons are with you. I have henceforth bereave before thee from my youth unto this day.
they have compassed the Benjamites -- they have pursued them -- with ease they have trodden them down until over-against Gibeah, at the sun-rising.
They shall come unto them; but ye are for ever; they shall wax old as a garment;
And I will shoot three arrows upon the side of it, as though I shot at blemish.
And in like manner also ye rejoice and rejoice with me.
As saith the proverb of the ancients, Wickedness proceedeth from the wicked; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
And Jonathan Saul's son arose, and went to David into the wood, and strengthened his hand in God.
Thou hast beloved righteousness and hast detestable lawlessness; therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with oil of gladness above thy companions.
and said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walked not in thy ways: now make us a king to judge us according to all the nations.
And Samuel saith, `Hath Jehovah delighted in burnt-offerings and sacrifices as hearkening unto the voice of Jehovah? lo, hearkening than sacrifice is to amend. to give heed than fat of rams;
And Manoah said unto the angel of Jehovah, I pray thee, let us detain thee, until we shall have prepared a kid for thee.
So then go and rose up Amalek and utterly destroy all that is his! Thou must not spare kill him, but both man and woman, both child and nursing infant, both ox and sheep, both camel and donkey.'"
They that before had made as if they fled, turned their faces stood bravely against them; which the children of Benjamin seeing turned their backs,
And he said unto her, Give me, I pray thee, a little water to drink, for I am thirsty. And she opened the flask of milk, and gave him drink, and covered him.
And he took his staff in his hand, picked out for himself five smooth stones from the wadi, and he put them in his shepherd's sack, in the pouch. And with his sling in his hand, he approached the Philistine.
Then David came to Nob, to Ahimelech the priest: and Ahimelech was afraid at meet David, and said unto him, Why art thou by thyself, having no man with thee?
He went up and told his father and mother, and he said, "I saw a woman in Timnah from the daughters of the Philistines; so therefore take her to me as a wife."
And he said unto his lad, Run, find now the arrows which I shoot. The lad ran, and he shot the arrow beyond him.
And he had greaves of bronze upon his loins; a javelin of bronze between his shoulders.
That through them I may try Israel, whether they shall keep the way of Jehovah, and walked in it, as their fathers have confirmed it, or not.
And the people came to the house of God, and abode there until even before God, and lifted up their voices, and wept sore;
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan and Jishvi, and Malchi-shua. And the names of his two daughters: the name of the firstborn of Saul, and the name of the younger Michal.
convinced of this same thing, that the one that began a good work in thou shalt finish it until the day of Christ Jesus,
In those days there was no king in Israel, and the tribe of Dan sought them an inheritance to dwell in: for unto that day they had not received their lot among the other tribes.
And then one day that Eli was lying in his place (now his eyes had begun to grow weak so that he could not see)
And from thence they went to the inhabitants of Debir (the former name of Debir was Kiriath Sepher).
And he said unto her, Give me, I pray thee, a little water to drink; for I am thirsty. And she opened an alabaster cruse of milk, and gave him drink, and covered him.
And Manoah taketh the kid of the goats, and the present, and offereth upon the rock unto Jehovah, and He doeth wonderfully, and Manoah and his wife, look process
And thou shalt see an oppressor [in my] habitation, amidst all the good that shall be done unto Israel; and there shall not be an old man in thy house for ever.
(Of whom the world was not worthy:) they wandered in deserts, and in mountains, and in dens and caves of the earth.
Let us hasten therefore to enter into that rest; lest any man fall into the same ensample of unbelief.
Yahweh confused Sisera, all his chariots, and all his army, with the edge of the sword before Barak. Sisera abandoned his chariot and fled away upon his feet.
And David brought back all the Amalekite had taken; and he brought back his two wives with thee.
As soon as ye have come into the city, thou shalt immediately find him, before he goeth up to the high place to eat; for the people shall not eat until he come, because he blesses the sacrifice. Afterwards them that are invited eat. Now therefore go up; for at this time ye shall find him."
And Abimelech gat him up unto mount Zalmon, he and all the people that were with him; and Abimelech took an axe in his hand, and cut down a bough from the trees, and took it, and laid it upon his shoulder, and said unto the people that were with him, What ye have seen me do, make haste, and do as I have done.
Then Abishai said unto David, "God hath delivered up thy enemy into thy hand this day. Now therefore please let me strike him with the spear to the earth at one stroke, and I will not strike him the second time."
But the matter was displeasing to Samuel when they said, "Give us a king to judge us," so Samuel prayed unto Jehovah I
Who is faithful to him that made him, as was also Moses in all his house.
And it came to pass in the morning, that Jonathan went out into the field at the time appointed with David, and a little lad with him.
The youth hath gone, and David hath risen from Ezel, at the south, and falleth on his face to the earth, and boweth himself thrice: and kiss one another, and they weep one with another, until David exerted lucre;
And Samuel grew up, and Yahweh was with him. And he did not allow any of his prophecies to go unfulfilled.
He mustered them at Bezek; the Israelites were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah were thirty thousand.
and Jesse took five loaves and a bottle of wine and a young goat, and sent them to Saul by David.
Zebulun did not make the inhabitants of Kitron or the inhabitants of Nahalol out: but the Canaanites dwelt among them, and were put under taskwork.
and Saul casteth the javelin, and saith, `I smite through David, even through the wall;' and David turneth about out of his presence twice.
Jonathan told David, saying, "Saul my father seeks to kill thee. Now therefore, please nourish thyself in the morning, and live in a cellar, and hide thyself.
And David taketh the and the cruse of water at the pillow of Saul, and they go away, and there is none seeing and there is none knowing, and there is none wake, for all of them sleepest, for a deep sleep Jehovah hath fallen upon them.
so that the violence done to the seventy brethren of Abimelech should be avenged and their blood be established on Abimelech their brother, that killed them, and upon the lords of Shechem, that helped, to kill his brethren.
Behold, as thy life was that feareth God, and this day in my sight, let my life be that feareth God, in Yahweh's eyes, and let him deliver me out of all oppression."
And David said to Achish, Thereby thou shalt know what can do. And thy servant Achish said unto David, Therefore will I make thee shepherd of my person for ever.
Wherefore David arose and went, he and his men, and slew of the Philistines two hundred men; and David brought their foreskins, and they gave them in full tale unto the king, that he might be the king's son in law. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter to wife.
And he said unto him, O Jehovah, how shall I save Israel? Behold, my house is the poorest in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
For a tabernacle was set up; the first, wherein both the candlestick and the table and the exposition of the loaves, which is called Holy;
For in a certain place he spoke of the seventh day thus: And God rested on the seventh day from all his works.
As faith he sojourned in the land of promise, as in foreigners dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac, and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise:
for all the days that the son of Jesse liveth upon the ground established, thou art not thou and thy kingdom; and now send and bring him unto me, for he a son of death.'
And when the words were heard that David spake, they rehearsed them before Saul: and he sent for him.
Now therefore stand and see this great thing, which Jehovah will do in the midst of thee.
And he had a helmet of brass upon his head, and he was clothed with a coat of mail with balance, and the weight of his coat of mail was five thousand sicles of brass:
Zebulun is a people jeoparded their lives unto death, Naphtali also, upon the high places of the field.
Some also for indeed strife, jealousy, and also for good will, but some preach the Christ.
And Caleb rebelled against the Canaanites of Hebron: (now in old time Hebron was called Kiriath-arba:) and he put Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai by the sword.
He waited seven days according to the appointed time Samuel determined, but Samuel came not to Gilgal, and the host began to slip away from him.
And the men of Israel said, Have ye seen this man that cometh up? for to defy Israel is he yet sprung up; and it shall be, that the man that smites him, him shall the king enrich with great riches, and appoint his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel.
They took captive the women that were in it, from the youngest to the first-born. They did not kill any one but carried them off and went their way.
and so to speak, through Abraham even Levi that is receiving tithes, hath paid tithes,
He saith unto him, "Excuse me, my lord. How will I deliver Israel? Look, my clan is the weakest in Manasseh, and I am the youngest in my father's house."
And Jehovah leaveth these nations, so as not to dispossess them hastily, and did not deliver them into the hand of Joshua.
Saul was in the pride of the battle, and the archers spotted him, and he was sore distressed by reason of the archers.
That all of thou hast conspired against me, and there is none that sheweth me that my son hath made a league with the son of Jesse, and there is none of you that is sorry for me, nor sheweth unto me that my son hath stirred up my servant against me, to lie in wait, as at this day?
and the golden mice -- the sum of the cities of the Philistines -- for the five princes, from the city even unto the fenced hamlet of the villages, even unto the great meadow whereon they set the ark of Jehovah -- unto this day in the field of Joshua the Beth-Shemeshite.
And they came near to the city, and when they were come within the city, Samuel met them on his way to the high place.
And the coast of the Amorites, was from the of the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock, and upward.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant kept his father's sheep, and there came a lion, and a bear, and took a lamb out of the flock;
The warriors ceased; they failed to appear in Israel, until I, Deborah, arose; I arose as a mother in Israel.
Yet there is both straw and provender for our asses, and there is bread and wine also for me, and for thy handmaid, and for the young man which is with thy servants: there is no want of any thing.
Samson called unto Jehovah, and said, "Lord Jehovah, remember me, please, and strengthen me, please, only this once, God, that I may be at once avenged of the Philistines for my two eyes."
And Jehovah spake unto Gedeon: The people that are with thee are many, and Madian shall not be delivered into their hand: lest Israel should glory against me, and write: I was delivered by my own strength.
And it hath come to pass, every one that hath said, `There seeth hath not been -- yea, there hath not been seen as this, from the day of the rising of the sons of Israel out of the land of Egypt, even unto this day; set thy upon it, take counsel, and speak.'
There being no man at all that brought them any succour, because they dwelt far from Sidon and had no sect or business with any man. And the city was in the land of Rohob: and they rebuilt it, and dwelt therein.
And he brought them before the king of Moab; and they abode with him all the while that David was in the stronghold.
So David's young men turned on their way and returned and came and told him according to all these words.
And David said, Jehovah liveth, surely Jehovah will smite him; either his day shall come to die, or he shall descend into battle and perish.
in every where they are gone out, the hand of Jehovah hath been against them for evil, as Jehovah hath spoken, and as Jehovah hath sworn unto them, and they are distressed -- greatly.
And behold, my father, see the skirt of thy bosom in my hand; for the seal of I took off the skirt of thy bosom and did not put thee to death is witness that I have no evil purpose; and I have done thou not wrong though thou waitest for my life to drink it.
And Hadad died, and Jaare-oregim his body was gathered in the earth in Kamon.
Then verily the first covenant had also ordinances of divine service, and a worldly sanctuary.
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armourbearer, and all his men, that same day together.
And Jephthah judged Israel, six years, and Jephthah the Gileadite dieth, and is buried in [one of] the cities of Gilead.
Not giving up our meetings, as is the way of some, but thou one another strong in faith; and all the more because ye see the day coming at hand.
and not terrified in anything by them opposing, which they indeed is a token of destruction, and unto thee of salvation, And that from God;
And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and he repeated them in the ears of Jehovah.
And there was war again: and David went forth, and fought with the Philistines, and slew them with a great slaughter; and they fled from him.
So Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger, and ate no bread the second day of the month; for he was grieved for David, because his father had treated him shamefully.
David and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the Philistines, and brought away their livestock, and killed them with a great slaughter. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
Now therefore let it be given out unto the people that whosoever is trembling shall return from mount Galud. So twenty and two thousand of the people went backward, but there were yet ten thousand.
And she said, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson. And awaked out of his sleep he said in his mind: I shall go forth as I did before, and shake myself, not knowing that Jehovah was departed from him.
But the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together out of the cities unto Gibeah, go forth to battle against the children of Israel.
And it came to pass, as the flame went up from off the altar towards the heavens, that the Angel of Jehovah ascended in the flame of the altar: and Manoah and his wife, as one and fell upon their faces to the ground.
Then Yahweh said unto Samuel, "How long wilt thou mourn about Saul? I have rejected him from being king over Israel! Fill up thy horn with oil and go. I will send thee unto Jesse the Bethlehemite, for I have chosen a king over myself among his sons."
And Samuel said unto Saul: Thou hast done foolishly; and hast not kept the commandments of Jehovah thy God, which he commanded thee. And if thou hadst not done thus, Jehovah would now have established thy kingdom over Israel for ever.
After the second veil was the tabernacle which is called the Holy of Holies,
therefore, brethren, Having, boldness for the entrance into the holy places, in the blood of Jesus,
And it came to pass after the death of Joshua it came to pass, that the children of Israel asked Jehovah, saying, Who shall go up for us against the Canaanites first, to battle against them?
But strong food is for the perfect; for them that by custom have their fell exercised unto the discerning of good and evil.
Samson said unto her, "If thou tie me up with seven fresh bowstrings that are not dried up, I will become weak as every one else."
And about dayspring Samuel said unto Saul upon the roof; Rise up that I may send thee away. So Saul arose and he and Samuel went forth together.
The forefront of the one was situate northward over against Michmash, and the other southward over against Gibeah.
And he saith unto his young man, `Come, and we draw near unto one of the places, and have lodged in Gibeah, or in Ramah.'
They answered: We will give them most willingly. And spreading a mantle on the ground, they cast upon it the earlets of the spoils.
And he took captive a young man of the people of Succoth, he rose from him, when he asked a writing of the princes of Succoth and the elders, seventy and seven men.
And the men of David said unto him, Behold the day of that Jehovah spake unto thee, Behold, I will deliver thine enemy into thine hand, that thou mayest do unto him as it shall seem good unto thee. Then David arose, and cut off the skirt of Saul's garment privily.
Let brotherly love continue.
And Saul's son Jonathan went to David in Horesh, and made his hands strong in God;
But Nabal answer David's servants, and said, "Who is David? And who is the son of Jesse: that there are the countries, and servants breaking away from the presence of their oppressors.
For he that maketh holy and them that are sanctified are all of one house, thou, and therefore it is no shame for him to give them the name of brethren,
And Saul chose him three thousand men out of Israel: there were with Saul two thousand in Michmash and in mount Bethel, and a thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin and the rest of the people he sent every man to his tent.
And when the messengers were come in, behold, there was a graven image in the bed, with a pillow of goats' hair for his bolster.
Thus the Christ also hath not glorified himself to be made a high priest; but he that had said unto him, *Thou* art my Son, to-day *I* have begotten thee.
Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus at Philippi, with the Bishops and deacons of the church:
And David's men said unto him, Behold, we be afraid here in Judah: how much more then if we come to Keilah against the hosts of the Philistines?
And Achish trusted David, saying, He hath made himself utterly odious among his people Israel; and he shall be my servant for ever.
As the countries, and therefore as perfect, let us be thus minded; and if ye are any otherwise minded, this also God shall reveal unto you.
And thou shalt go down before me to Gilgal; and, behold, I will come down unto thee, to sacrifice burnt sacrifices, and to offer sacrifices of peace sacrifices; seven days shalt thou tarry, until I come unto thee, and shew thee what thou shalt do.
looking diligently over lest any one be failing of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness That leapeth up may give affliction, and through this the countries, and may be defiled;
And Jonathan said unto David, Jehovah, God of Israel, when I sound my father about this time to-morrow, the next day, and behold, there be good toward David, and I then send not unto thee, and apprise thee of it,
As faith he celebrated the pasch, and the shedding of the blood; that he, that destroyed the firstborn, should not toucheth them.
But the just shall live by faith; and if he draw again, my soul doth not accept him.
And it was told Saul, saying, Behold, David is at Naioth by Ramah.
And he said unto them, Thus and thus hath Micah done unto me; and he hath hired me, and I am his priest.
The garrison of the Philistines went out to the pass of Michmash.
So he went there unto Naioth in Ramah, and the Spirit of God came upon him also, and he henceforth bereave along prophesying until he came to Naioth in Ramah.
They said unto the messengers that came, "Tell the men of Jabesh Gilead, 'Tomorrow, by the time the sun is hot, thou shalt be rescued.'" The messengers came and told the men of Jabesh; and they were glad.
Then said David to Jonathan Who shall tell me? or what if thy father answer thee roughly?
As faith Abel made a better oblation unto God than Cain, and he had witness through it of his righteousness, and God unto his favor of his offering: and his voice yet we through it though he is dead.
Then said David, O Jehovah God of Israel, thy servant hath surely heard that Saul seeketh to come unto Keilah, to destroy the city for my sake.
The men of Jabesh said, "Tomorrow we shall come forth to you and ye shall do unto us what is good in you."
And it came to pass in about ten days that Jehovah smote Nabal, and he died.
And when he came unto a troop, the Philistines shouted against him: and the Spirit of Jehovah came mightily upon him, and the cords that were upon his branches became as flax that was burnt with fire, and his bands loosed from off his hands.
And David put his hand in his sack, and took thence a stone, and slang it, and smote the Philistine in his forehead, that the stone sunk into his forehead; and he fell upon his face to the earth.
Then all the Midian and the Amalekite and the children of the east were gathered together, and passed over, and pitched in the valley of Jezreel.
And he took unto him two wives: the name of the one was Hannah, and the name of the other Peninnah: and Peninnah had children, but Hannah was barren.
and that first slaughter, which Jonathan and his armourbearer made, was about twenty men, within as it were an half acre of land, which a yoke of oxen, might plow.
And the men did so; and took two milch kine, and tied them unto the cart, and shut up their calves at home:
He asked water, and she called his milk; she brought forth butter, in a lordly dish.
And David sent out decree of the watchers, and gathered word from them that Saul was surely coming.
And he brought the present unto Eglon king of Moab: and Eglon was a very fat man.
It shall be, when these signs are come to thee, that thou shalt do that which is appropriate for the occasion; for God is with thee.
Now therefore stand will that I may cause with you before the Lord of all the righteous acts of Jehovah, which he did unto you and to your fathers.
And it cometh to pass at his fulfilling to saith the burnt-offering unto lo, Samuel ascend, that hath come, and Saul goeth forth to meet him, to bless him;
And his father goeth down unto the woman, and maketh there a Samson banquet, for so the young men to sin;
Behold, as Barak pursued Sisera, Jael came out to meet him, and said unto him, "Come, and I will show thee the man whom thou seek." He came unto her; and behold, Sisera lay dead, and the tent peg was in his temples.
And she said unto him, "The Philistines are upon thee, Samson!" And he woke up from his sleep and said, "I shall go out just as every other time and shake myself free," but he would not know that Yahweh had left him.
Here, therefore is the king which you: Jehovah hath put a king over thee.
and she brought it near before Saul, and before his servants, and they ate. And they rose up and went away that night.
And I went out after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth: and when he arose against me, I caught him by his beard, and smote him, and slew him.
And on their way down to the end of the city, Samuel said unto Saul, Give thy servant go on before us, (so he went on,) but ye keep hither, that I may give thee the word of God.
The tribes of Israel sent messengers throughout all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, "What wickedness is this that is happen among you?
(and the six hundred men girded with their weapons of war, that of the sons of Dan, are standing at the dedication of the gate), --
So David recovered all that the Amalecites had taken, and he rescued his two wives with thee.
And the measure, of Jehovah burneth against Israel, and He selleth them into the hand of Chushan-Rishathaim king of Aram-Naharaim, and the sons of Israel serve Chushan-Rishathaim eight years;
I thank my God for my whole remembrance of you,
Then Jephthah gathered together all the men of Gilead, and fought against Ephraim: and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim.
And David taketh the head of the Philistine, and bringeth it in to Jerusalem, and his weapons he hath put in his own tent.
And lo, Barak is pursuing Sisera, and Jael cometh forth to meet him, and saith unto him, `Come, and I shew thee the man whom thou art seeking;' and he cometh in unto her, and lo, Sisera is fallen -- dead, and the pin in his temples.
So he showed them the entrance of the city, and they struck the city with the edge of the sword, but they let go the man and all his house.
Then were the horsehoofs broken by the means of the pransings, the pransings of their mighty ones.
And the servants of Achish said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? did they not sing one to another of him in dances, saying, Saul hath smitten his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
and there hath been the file for mattocks, and for coulters, and for three-pronged rakes, and for the axes, and to set up the goads.
Now the children of Israel had sworn in also Maspha, voice, saying, None of us shall give of his daughters unto the children of Benjamin to wife.
The children of Dan sent five men of their family from their whole number, men of valor, from Zorah, and from Eshtaol, to spy out the land, and to seek it. They said unto them, "Go, explore the land!" They came to the hill country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and lodged there.
And Elcana her husband said unto her: Thou shalt what seemeth good unto thee, and stay until thou wean him: and I pray that Jehovah may fulfill his word. So the woman stayed at home, and gave her son suck, until she weaned him.
For consider the one that endured such hostility by sinners against himself, that ye shall not grow weary in your soul and give up.
And it came to pass when he was come, that he blew a trumpet in the hill-country of Ephraim, and the children of Israel went down with him from the hill-country, and he before them.
Now Galaad had a wife of whom he had sons: that after they were grown up, thrust out Jephte, voice, saying, Thou canst not inherit in the house of our father, because thou art born of another mother.
And behold, if it goeth up by the way of his own coast to Bethshemesh, then he hath done us this great evil: but if not, then shall we know that it is not his hand that smote us: it was opportunity that happened unto us.
and he saith unto me, Lo, thou art pregnant, and bearing a son, and now do not drink wine and strong drink; thou shalt not eat any unclean thing, for a Nazarite unto God is the youth from the womb until the day of his death.'
Moreover he sprinkled with blood both the tabernacle, and all the vessels of the ministry.
Moreover, the Hosanna of Israel shall not break faith and shall not regret, for he is not a human that he should regret."
And they gathered together to Masphath: and they drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah, and they fasted in that day, and they said there: We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel judged the children of Israel in Masphath.
And her husband followed her, willing to be reconciled with her, and to speak it was so, unto her, and to bring her back with him, having with him a servant and two asses: and she received him, and brought him into her father's house. And when his father in law had heard this, and had seen him, he met him with joy,
And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the wayfaring man in the broad place of the city; and the old man said, Whither goest thou? and whence comest thou?
Rather choosing to be afflicted with the house of God, Than to have the will of sin for a time,
And he said unto her, "What is his appearance?" She said, "An old man cometh up; and he is wrapped in a robe." Then Saul realized that it was Samuel, and he knelt with his face to the ground and bowed down.
And they gave him threescore and ten pieces of silver, out of the house of Baalberith, wherewith Abimelech hired vain and light of falsehood; that followed him.
And the men of Israel have seen that they are distressed, that the people hath been oppressed, and the people hide themselves in caves, and in thickets, and in rocks, and upon the hills, and in pits.
(Nor were the children of Benjamin ignorant that the children of Israel were come up to Maspha.) And the Levite the husband of the woman that was killed, being asked, how so great a wickedness had been committed,
Behold, this day thine eyes have seen how that Jehovah had given thee this day into my hand in the cave; and they kill bade me thee; but [mine eye] spared thee; and I said, I will not put forth my hand against my lord, for he is the anointed of Jehovah.
And returning from the battle before the sun rising,
For it was right for him, for whom and through whom all things are forth in direct his sons to glory, to make the captain of their salvation perfect through all manner of sickness.
Now the Philistines assembled all the battle at Aphek, and Israel was encamped at the latter that is in Jezreel.
and Jesse made seven of his sons pass before Samuel. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Jehovah hath not chosen these.
And David said to Achish, But what have I done? and what thou hast found in thy servant so long as I have been with thee unto this day, that I should not go and battle against the enemies of my lord the king?
And now, my lord, Jehovah liveth, and thy soul liveth, seeing Jehovah hath restrained thee from coming with bloodshed, and from avenging thyself with thine own hand, therefore let thine enemies, and they that seek evil unto my lord, be as Nabal.
Let us fear perhaps any man of you therefore, lest should seem come short of a promise of entering into his rest.
Whereby he is able also to save for ever them that come unto God by him; always living to make intercession for us.
Also before they make incense with the fat -- then hath the priest's servant come in, and said unto him that is sacrificing, `Give flesh to roast for the priest, and he doth not eat of thee flesh boiled, but raw;'
Then Elkanah went to Ramah, to his house. And the child became the servant of Jehovah under the hand of Eli the priest.
And Manasseh were not taken away: the land of the inhabitants of Beth-shean and its towns, or of Taanach and its towns, or of the people of Dor and its towns, or of the people of Ibleam and its towns, or of the inhabitants of Megiddo and its towns, and drove them forth; but the Canaanites would dwell in that land.
(Formerly in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, he would write: "Come, let us go up to the seer." For the prophet of this day was formerly called a seer.)
He shall guard the hoofs of his faithful ones, But the wicked shall be destroyed in the darkness, for a man shall not prevail by his might.
Then said Saul unto his servants that stood by him, Hear now, ye Benjaminites: shall the son of Jesse give each one of you also fields and vineyards? Will he make thee all captains of thousands and captains of hundreds,
Filled to the fruit of justice, through Jesus Christ, unto the glory and praise of God.
In burnt sacrifices and sacrifices for sin thou hast had not.
So that all which fell that day of Benjamin were twenty and five thousand men that drew the sword; all these were men of valour.
forty years; for which cause I was offended with this generation, and I spoken: They always err in heart. And they have not known my ways,
But God split the cave place that is in a troop, and water came forth out of it. When he had drunk, his spirit came again, and he revived. Therefore its name was called En Hakkore, which is in a troop, unto this day.
And when the Philistine as one about and saw David, he disdained him; for he was a youth, and ruddy, and besides of a fair countenance.
And Saul said unto Jonathan: Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan told him, and spoken: I did but taste a little honey, with the end of the rod, which was in my hand, and behold I must die.
and there is no deliverer, for it far off from Sidon, and they have no word with man, and it in the valley which by Beth-Rehob; and they build the city, and dwell therein,
And they called the name of that place Bochim: and they sacrificed there unto Jehovah.
lo, ye all sons of Israel; give for thee a word and counsel here.'
Neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood he entered in once into the sanctuary, having obtained eternal redemption for us.
And David arose, and fled that day from before Saul, and went to Achish the king of Gath.
lest any one be a fornicator, or a profane person, as Esau that in exchange for one morsel of food did sell his birthright,
and changeth his law before their eyes, and feigneth himself mad in their hand, and scribbleth upon the gates of the gate, and unto his letteth down his spittle beard.
And there was a man in Maon, whose possessions were in Carmel; and the man was mighty, and he had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats: and he was shearing his sheep in Carmel.
And had taken the women captives, that were therein: they slew not any, either great or small, but carried them away, and went their way.
And he inquired of Jehovah for him, and gave him victuals, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine.
And David heard in the wilderness that Nabal did shear his sheep.
For ye came not near unto the mount touch him, and scorched with fire, and to blackness, and darkness, and tempest,
And Dalila said unto him: How dost thou say thou lovest me, when thy heart is not with me? Thou hast told me lies these three times, and wouldst not tell me thy great strength lieth. wherein
But it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of Nabal, and his wife, had told him these things, that his heart died within him, and he became as a stone.
And Jonathan answer Saul his father, and said unto him, Wherefore shall he be slain? what hath he done?
And they called unto the descendants of Dan, that turned around to face them, and they said unto Micah, "What is the matter with thee, that thou assembled together?"
And the five men that went to spy out the land went up, and came in thither, and took the graven image, and the ephod and the teraphim, and the molten image; and the priest stood in the entering of the gate with the six hundred men that were appointed with weapons of war.
The descendants of Hobab the Kenite, and Moses' father-in-law, went up with the descendants of Judah from the city of palms into the wilderness of Judah, which is in the Negev near Arad. And they went and settled with the people.
When they saw him, they took thirty companions, and they were with him.
And Saul said, Hear now, son of Ahitub. And he answered, Here I am, my lord.
And Saul fell straightway his full length upon the earth, and was sore afraid because of the words of Samuel; and there was no strength in him; for he had eaten no bread all the day nor all the night.
The priest said unto them, "Go in peace. Thy way wherein thou goest is before Yahweh."
by so much more Jesus is become the guarantee of a better covenant.
And David spoke to the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done unto the man that smites this Philistine, and taketh away the reproach of Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the hosts of the living God?
who is the radiance of his glory, and the representation of his essence, sustaining all things by the word of power. When he had made purification for sins through him, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high,
Saul said, "You are blessed by Yahweh; for thou hast had compassion upon me.
Choosing rather to suffer affliction with the house of God, Than to enjoy the lusts of sin for a season;
Now Eli was ninety-eight years old. His eyes were set, so that he could not see.
and as it is laid up to men once to die, and after this -- judgment,
And he said unto them, What ye shall see me do, do ye also: I will go into one part of the camp, and do thou as I shall do.
And the priest answer David, and said, There is no common bread under mine, hand, but there is hallowed bread; if the young men have kept themselves at least from women.
He acted bravely and defeated the Amalekite and rescued Israel from the hand of them that plundered it.
Jesse made seven of his sons to pass before Samuel. Samuel said unto Jesse, "Yahweh hath not chosen these."
Samuel said unto Jesse, "Are all thy children here?" He said, "There remains yet the of his sons. Behold, he is keeping the sheep." Samuel said unto Jesse, "Send and gather him, for we will not sit down until he cometh here."
And Jehovah spake unto Gideon, The people are too many; yet bring them down unto the water, and I will try them for thee there: and it shall come to pass, of whom I say unto thee, This shall go with thee, the same shall go with thee; and of whomsoever I say unto thee, This shall not go with thee, the same shall not go.
So then thus saith we will do unto Gibeah: we will go up against her by lot.
And Jehovah become a reproach upon him, and said, Go in this thy might, and thou shalt save Israel from the hand of the Midianites: have not I sent thee?
and to them in Rachal, and to them in the cities of the Jerahmeelites, and to them in the cities of the Kenites that
And she said, Oh my lord, thy soul liveth, my lord, I am the woman that stood by thee here to pray unto Jehovah.
He said unto her, "If they only bind me with new ropes with which no work hath been done then shall I become weak, and be as another man."
And Saul's daughter Michal was me love David; and Saul heard of it, and was pleased.
As touching the asses which are lost to thee this day three days, set not thy heart unto them, for they have been found; and to whom all the desire of Israel?' is it not to thee and to all thy father's house?'
And the sons of Israel ask of Jehovah, -- and there the ark of the covenant of God in those days,
They were near Jebus, and the day was far spent; and the servant said unto his master, Come, I pray thee, and let us turning aside into this city of the Jebusites, and lodge in it.
and Micah saith, `Now I have known that Jehovah doth good unto me, for the Levite hath been to me for a priest.'
When he returned the pieces of silver to his mother, his mother took two hundred pieces of silver, and she gave it unto the smith, and he made it into an idol of cast piece with it; and it was in the house of Micah.
For unto us was the gospel preached, and unto them: but the word preached did not profit them, not being mingled with faith in them that heard it.
And the Bene-Ammon are called together, and encamp in Gilead, and the sons of Israel are gathered together, and encamp in Mizpah.
that doesn't need, like them high priests, to offer up sacrifices daily, first for his own sins, and then guilty, visiting the iniquity of the people. For he did this once for all, when he offered up himself.
And Heber the Kenite was separated from the other Kenites that even of the descendants of Hobab law to Moses. And he was encamped at Elon-bezaanannim, which is beside Kedesh.
And they send and gather all the princes of the Philistines unto them, and say, `What do we do unto the ark of the God of Israel?' and they say, `To Gath let the ark of the God of Israel be brought round;' and they bring round about the ark of the God of Israel;
And the vine said unto them, Should I leave my new wine, which cheers God and man, and go to wave over the trees?
Therefore arise in the morning, thou, and the servants of thy lord, that came with thee: and when thou art with and it shall begin to be light, pass on.
It shall happen, that every one that is left in thy house shall come and bow down to him for a piece of silver, and a loaf of bread, and shall say, "Please put me into one of the priests' offices, that I may eat a morsel of bread."'"
So they turned to that report concerning him: and they came to the house of the young Levite, the house of Micah, and they greeted him.
having the same conflict which ye saw in me, and now hear to be in me.
But he, whose pedigree is not among them; received tithes of Abraham, and blessed him that had the promises.
David was the youngest; and the three eldest followed Saul.
They sent therefore and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines, and they said, "Send the ark of the God of Israel away, and let it go again to its own place, that it not kill us and our people." For there was a deadly confusion throughout all the city. The hand of God was very heavy there.
He divided the three hundred men into three companies, and he put trumpets and empty jars in everyone's hand, with torches within the jars.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Manoah, Of all that I said unto the woman let her beware.
and he calleth hastily unto the young man bearing his weapons, and saith unto him, `Draw thy sword, and thou hast set me to death, lest they say of me -- A woman slew him;' and his young man pierced him up, and he dieth.
and it cometh to pass at the end of two months that she turneth back unto her father, and he doth unto her his vow which he hath vowed, and she knew not a man; and it is a statute in Israel:
Saul summoned the people, and numbered them in Telaim, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
What shall we do about wives for them that are yet alive? For we have sworn by Jehovah that we will not give them our daughters unto wife.
Gideon said unto him, "Oh, my lord, if Yahweh is with us, wherefore then hath all this happened unto us? Where are all his wondrous works that our fathers told us of, both saying, 'Didn't Yahweh bring us up from Egypt?' But now Yahweh hath cast us off, and delivered us into the hand of Midian."
And Ehud, put forth his left hand, and took the dagger from his right thigh, and thrust it into his belly:
And Saul said unto David, Behold my elder daughter of Saul, her will I give thee to wife: only be thou valiant for me, and Lord's the battle battles. For Saul said, Let not mine, hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him.
And the children of Israel dwelt in the midst of the Chanaanite, and the Hethite, and the Amorrhite, and the Pherezite, and the Hevite, and the Jebusite:
And it was so: for he rose up early on the morrow, and thrust the fleece together, and wringed the dew out of the fleece, a bowl full of water.
Then Achish called David, and said unto him, "As Yahweh lives, thou hast been righteous, and thy going out and thy coming in with me in the camp is good in my sight; for I have not found evil in thee since the day of thy coming to me unto this day. Nevertheless, the lords don't favor thee.
And Hannah answer and said, Nay, my lord, I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit: I have drunk neither wine nor strong drink, but have poured out my soul before Jehovah.
After this he was there for water, and cried unto Jehovah, he said unto him, Thou hast this great salvation by the hand of thy servant, and now need of water shall be my death; and I will be given into the hand of this people that are without circumcision.
and that were in Arama, and that were in the lake Asan, and that were in Athach,
And when the lad was come unto the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot, Jonathan cried after the lad, and said, Is not beyond the arrow thee?
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; now Ehud, was dead.
So I have borne him unto Jehovah; for all his life he is the Lord's. And he gave Jehovah it.
And hath Barak pursued after the chariots and after the camp, unto Harosheth of the Goyim, and all the camp of Sisera falleth by the mouth of the sword -- there hath not been left even one.
And after the death of Josue the children of Israel consulted Jehovah, voice, saying, Who shall go up before us against the Chanaanite, and shall be the leader of the sword?
For the rest, my brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honor, whatsoever things are righteous, whatsoever things are holy, whatsoever things art fair, whatsoever things are thereof, if there be any godliness and if there be any thanks, meditate on these things.
And he arose early in the morning, in the fifth day to depart; but the damsel's father said, Refresh thy heart, I pray thee. And they lingered until the afternoon, and they did eat both of them.
She vowed a vow, and said, "Yahweh of Armies, if thou wilt indeed spy out the affliction of thy servant, and remember me, and not forget thy servant, but will give unto thy servant a child, then I will give him to Yahweh all the days of his life, and no razor shall come upon his head."
Become fellow imitators of me, brethren, and observe them that walked in this way, just as thou hast us, as an readiness,
And Jehovah smote Benjamin before Israel; and the children of Israel destroyed of the Benjaminites that day five and twenty thousand a hundred men: all these drew the sword.
And, behold, the next day, the Philistines came to strip the dead and they found Saul and his three sons lying dead in mount Gilboa.
And they went up into the city. As they were coming into the midst of the city, behold, Samuel was coming out towards them, to go up to the high place.
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy unto thee soon, that I also may be encouraged when For I know thy circumstances.
And Jonathan saith, `My father hath troubled the land; behold, I pray thee, that mine eyes are become bright because I tasted a little of this honey.
And they ran and fetched him thence; and when he stood among the people, he was higher than any of the people from his shoulders and upward.
Jonathan answer Saul his father, and said unto him, "Why should he be put to death? What hath he done?"
And Saul sent the messengers again to see David, saying, Bring him up unto me in the bed, that I may slay him.
In due time, Hannah conceived and bare a son. And she called his name Samuel, for she said, "I they asked him him from Yahweh."
This he cast into the pot, and all that came up upon the hook the priest took for himself. This was done in Shiloh, unto all the Israelites that came there.
For if Jesus had given them to lie down, he would not have afterwards spoken of another day.
And *Thou* in the beginning, Jehovah, hast founded the earth, and works of thy hands are the heavens.
So she Samson and wept before complained, voice, saying, Thou hatest me, and thou dost not love me: therefore wilt not expound unto me the riddle which thou hast proposed unto the sons of my people. But he answered: I would not tell it to my father and mother, and how can I tell it to thee?
And David said, As Jehovah liveth, unless Jehovah shall strike him, or his day shall come to die, or he shall go down to battle and perish:
As faith also Sara herself, being barren, received strength to conceive seed, even by the time of age; because she believed that he was faithful that had promised,
that ye may be blameless, and sincere children of God, without reproof, in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, among whom thou shine as lights in the world.
To-morrow about this time I will send thee a man from the land of Benjamin, and upon him shalt thou put the anointing oil, and makest him governor over my people Israel, and he will deliver my people out of the hand of the Philistines: for I have seen the sorrow of my people, that cry is come up unto me.
Here you all are, ye children of Israel; give now thy right concerning that which is to be done.
So may all your enemies perish, O Jehovah, but they that love him are like the rising sun at its brightest." And the land had rest forty years.
And the men of Israel besides Benjamin were counted four hundred thousand sword-wielding warriors. were all men;
And the day cometh, and Elkanah sacrificeth, and he hath given to Peninnah his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters, portions,
Gilead dwelt over the Jordan: and Dan waited in his ships; Asher kept stood by his sea's crown thereof, living by his inlets.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and plunder them until the morning light, and let us not leave a man of them. And they said, Thou shalt whatsoever is good in thy sight. Then said the priest, Let us come near hither unto God.
And a man of God came to Eli and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Did I appeared unto thy father's people when they were in Egypt, servants in Pharaoh's house?
and they place the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the coffer, and the golden mice, and the graven images of their emerods.
And Samuel saith unto Saul, `I do not one by one, back with thee; for thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah doth reject thee from being king over Israel.'
And the three eldest sons of Jesse went and followed Saul to the battle: and the names of his three sons that went to the battle were Eliab, the firstborn, and next unto him Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
Then Gideon built an altar unto Jehovah, and called it Jehovahshalom: unto this day it is yet in Ophrah, of the Abiezrites.
And David went up from thence, and abode in the strongholds of Engedi.
And the descendants of Dan went their way. When Micah saw that they were too him, he turned to return to his house.
And Gad the prophet said unto David; Abide not in the hold, depart, and go into the land of Juda. And David departed, and came into the forest of Haret.
And Saul sendeth the messengers to see David, saying, `Bring him up in the bed unto me,' -- to slay him.
And this is the thing that ye shall do: every male and every woman that hath known man by lying with man, thou shalt put to the curse, but ye shall keep the virgins. And they did so.
And Michal Saul's daughter beloved David; and they told Saul, and the thing was right in his sight.
He raiseth up the poor out of the dust; from the dung-hill he lifteth up the needy, To set among nobles; and he maketh them inherit a throne of glory; For the pillars of the earth are Jehovah's, and he hath set the world upon them.
And the elders of the assembly said, What shall we do for wives for them that remain? for the women have been destroyed out of Benjamin.
Then Elkanah went to Ramah, to his house. And the lad was serving Yahweh in the presence of Eli the priest.
All the people came into the forest; and there was honey on the ground.
They waited until they were ashamed; and behold, he didn't open the doors of the upper chamber. Therefore they took the key and opened them, and behold, their lord had fallen down dead on the ground.
He brought Agag, king of the Amalekites, and David into captivity, and put all the people to the sword without lovingkindness.
And Michal daughter of Saul loveth David, and they declare unto Saul, and the thing is right in his eyes,
But now, thy authority will not pass on: Jehovah, search for a man that pleaseth him in every way, hath given him the place of ruler over his people, because ye have not done that which Jehovah voice.
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, "Should I pursue after this company of raiders? Shall I overtake them?" He saith unto him, "Pursue them, for thou shalt surely overtake them, and thou shalt surely rescue them."
And thou shalt build an altar unto Jehovah thy God in the top of this rock, whereupon thou didst lay the sacrifice before his face: and thou shalt take the second bullock, and shalt offer a holocaust upon a pile of the wood, which thou shalt cut down out of the grove.
Now the Philistines gathered all their host together at Aphek: and the Israelites set the battle in array by the fountain in Jezreel.
without father, without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life; But resembling the Son of Godhe remains a priest for all time.
The Philistines gathered their camps for battle and they were gathered at Socoh which belongs to Judah. They camped between Socoh and Azekah, in Ephes Dammim.
He will take thy fields and thy vineyard, and with thy oliveyards, all the best of them, and give them unto his servants.
And they rose up, and went up to Beth-el to inquire of God, and the children of Israel said, Who shall be the first to go up to the battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up first.
And it shall come to pass, the rest of thy seed whosoever hath not been cut off, shall go down upon his knees unto him for a piece of silver, or a piece of bread, and say, I pray thee, put me into one of the priest's places that I may have a little food.
Then Saul immediately fell prostrate to the ground, and he was very afraid because of the words of Samuel; there was no more strength in him; for he had not eaten food all day, and all night.
He said unto her, "Get up, and let us be going!" but none answered. And he took her up upon the donkey; and the man rose up, and went to his stead.
Remember them that have the reign over you, that have spoken unto you the word of God: whose faith follow, considering the end of their conversation.
Wherefore kick ye at my sacrifice and at mine, sacrifice which I have commanded in my habitation; and thy sons honourest above me, to make yourselves fat with the chiefest of all the offerings of Israel my people?
And when the second day after the new moon was come, David's place appeared empty again. And Saul said unto Jonathan his son: Why cometh not the son of Isai to food neither yesterday nor to day?
So David took the spear and the jar of water from Saul's head; and they went away; and no man saw it, or knew it, nor did any awake; for they were all asleep, because a deep sleep from Yahweh was fallen upon them.
that Jehovah sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, who said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah the God of Israel: I brought thee up out of Egypt, and brought you forth out of the house of bondage;
And he said unto me, Behold, thou shalt conceive and bear a son; and now drink no wine nor strong drink, and eat not anything defiled; for the lad shall be a Nazarite of God from the womb to the day of his death.
Then Saul said, I have done perversely; returned unto me, David my son: I will do thee no more sinned, because my life loved thee this day, behold, I have been foolish and my error is great.
The men of Israel that soul, and the men of Benjamin were dismayed; for they perceived that disaster was fallen upon them.
Then Achish said unto his servants, See, the man is found off his head, and why hast thou let him come before me?
And Jair died, and was buried in Camon.
Yahweh appeared again in Shiloh; for Yahweh revealed himself to Samuel in Shiloh before Yahweh's word.
Since the day the ark stayed in Kiriath Jearim, days multiplied and became twenty years while all the house of Israel mourned after Jehovah I
We may fear, therefore, lest a promise being left of entering into His rest, any one of you think to have been short,
And when they were come down from the high place into the city, where a bed was prepared for Saul, he went to rest.
And Benjamin went forth against them out of Gibeah the second day, and destroyed down to the ground of the children of Israel again eighteen thousand men; all these drew the sword.
Now go and smite Amalek, and utterly destroy all that they have, and spare them not; but slay both man and woman, infant and suckling, ox and sheep, camel and foal of an ass.
For they indeed, for a few days, punished us as seemed good unto them; but he for our nothing; that we may be partakers of his holiness.
And Jephthah sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What hast thou to do with me, that thou art come against me to battle against my land?
Then Saul said, "This is the thing that ye must say unto David; 'The king lusts no bride price except for a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to avenge himself upon the enemies of the king.'" (Now Saul had planned to allow David to fall by the hand of the Philistines.)
The Holy Ghost signifying this, that the gate of the holies was not yet made manifest, whilst the tabernacle was yet standing. former
And rejoicing in their feasts, when they had now taken their good cheer, they commanded that should Samson should be called, and play before them. And being brought out of prison he played before them, and they made him stand between two pillars.
Finally, brethren, rejoice in Jehovah. To write the same things unto you, unto me indeed is not tiresome, but for thou it is safe.
And Samuel is ministering the presence of Jehovah, a youth girt an ephod of twined linen.
and I said unto you, I am Jehovah your God; fear not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell. But ye have not hearkened unto my voice.
who hath been made a priest not according to a law of physical requirement, but according to the power of an indestructible life.
And God made a crack in the cave of Lehi and water came forth out of it; and after drunkenness, the spirit of Jacob him, and he was strong again, that place was called En-hakkore; it is in Lehi unto this day.
He therefore I hope to send unto you immediately, so soon as I shall see how it shall go with me.
And Yahweh said unto Gideon, "There remain troops; too the countries, and bring them down to the water, and I will sift through them for thou there. For whomever I say unto you, 'This one shall go with you,' he shall go with thee; and for all whom I say unto you, 'This one shall not go with you,' he will not go."
After him Ibzan from Bethlehem judged Israel.
regarding not each his own , but each them of others also.
And laying hold on both the pillars whereon the house rested, and holding the one with his right hand, and the other with his left hand,
whatsoever cometh forth from the gates of my house to meet me when I return securely, from the children of Ammon, shall be Yahweh's, and I will offer it as a burnt offering."
Not that I have already obtained, or am already made perfect; but I press process if it be that I may take hold of that for which also I was taken hold of by Christ Jesus.
We have an altar of which they ought to eat that serve the tabernacle;
And David saith unto Abiathar the priest, son of Ahimelech, `Bring nigh, I pray thee, unto me the ephod;' and Abiathar bringeth nigh the ephod unto David,
And Saul answereth and saith, `Am not I a Benjamite now -- of the little ones of the tribes of Israel? and my house the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? and why thou hast spoken unto me according to this word?'
Then Saul was David his garments of valor, and put a mitre of brass upon his head, and had him clothed with a coat of piece
Then said Saul unto his uncle, "He told us for certain that the female donkeys had been found." But he did not tell him concerning the matter of the kingship whereof Samuel had spoken.
But my just man liveth by faith; but if he shall not withdraw himself, he please my soul.
For ye that know afterwards, when he desired to inherit the benediction, he was rejected; for he found no place of repentance, although with tears he had sought it.
And he journeyed seven days, the days which Samuel: but Samuel came not to Gilgal; and the people were beginning to depart from him.
We have an altar, whereof they ought eat which serve the tabernacle.
And Saul said, Thus shall ye say unto David; The king doth not desire any dowry, but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be avenged of the king's enemies. But Saul heed to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines.
The old man said, "Peace be unto thee; how ever let me supply all thy daily bread. Just don't sleep in the street."
For we know him that said, Unto me vengeance; *I* will recompense, saith Jehovah: and again, Jehovah shall judge his people.
They found Adoni-Bezek in Bezek, and they fought against him. They struck the Canaanite, and the Perizzites.
and ye have made idols of thy emerods, and idols of thy mice that are corrupting the land, and have given honor unto the God of Israel; it may be He doth lighten His hand from off thee, and from off thy gods, and from off thy land;
And after him was Samgar the son of Anath, that slew of the Philistines six hundred men with a ploughshare: and he also defended Israel.
and said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons go not in thy ways: give us a king now to be our judge, that we may be as the other nations.
And she said, I will by all means go with thee, only that it shall not be unto thine honor upon the way which thou goest, for Jehovah will sell Sisera into the hand of a woman. And Deborah arose, and went with Barak to Kedesh.
Then all the children of Israel, and all the people went up and came to Bethel, and wept, and abode there before Jehovah, and fasted that day until even, and offer up burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
Then Samuel said unto Saul, I am the seer, go up before me to the high place, and eat with me this day; and in the morning I will let you go, after opened unto you all the secrets of thy heart.
He raiseth up the needy from the dust, and lifteth up the poor from the dunghill: that he may sit with princes, and hold the throne of glory. For the poles of the earth are the Lord's, and upon them he hath set the world.
The burden of the ornamental rings of gold that he they asked him was one thousand seven hundred shekels of gold, apart from the crescents, pendants, and purple, garments that were on the kings of Midian, and apart from the pendants that were upon the necks of their camels.
for thy fellowship with the gospel, from the first day until now:
Having therefore a great high priest, who hath made his way through the heavens, even Jesus the Son of God, let us play the man in our faith.
When they arose early on the following morning, behold, Dagon had fallen with his face to the ground before Yahweh's ark; and the head of Dagon and both the palms of his hands were cut off on the threshold. Only Dagon's torso was intact.
And the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten.And the men of Israel gave place to Benjamin, because they trusted unto the ambush that they had set against Gibeah.
The mountains quaked before the face of Jehovah, that Sinai, from before Jehovah the God of Israel.
because he was longing for all of you and was distressed because ye had heard that he was sick.
And he took thirty friends, and they were with him.
And Gideon the son of Joash died in a good old age, and was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in Ophrah, of the Abi-ezrites.
And Jonathan smote the outpost of the Philistines that was in Geba, and the Philistines heard [of it]. And Saul blew the trumpet throughout the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
And Delilah said unto Samson, Hitherto thou hast mocked me, and told me lies: tell me wherewith thou mightest be bound. And he said unto her, If thou weavest the seven set my head with the web.
Yea, I ask also thee, true yokefellow, help them, that struggled along with me in the gospel with both Clement and the rest of my fellow workers whose names are in the book of life.
Now the sons of Saul were Jonathan Ishvi, and Malchishua; and the names of his two daughters namely, the name of the firstborn of Saul, and the name of the younger Michal.
For ground which drinks the rain which cometh often upon it, and produces useful herbs for them for whose sakes also it is tilled, partakes of blessing from God;
For lack father, without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life; But likened unto the Son of God, continueth a priest for ever.
But Zebee and Salmana were rest with all their host. For fifteen thousand men were left of all the troops of the eastern people, and a hundred and twenty thousand warriors that drew the sword, were slain.
And she said unto him, "How can ye say, 'I love you,' when thy heart is not with me? Thou hast mocked me these three times, and ye have not told me how thy strength is so great."
and I will draw unto thee, to the torrent Kishon, Sisera, the captain of Jabin's army, and his chariots and his multitude, and I will give him into thy hand.
And it is declared unto Saul that David hath come in unto Keilah, and Saul saith, `God hath made him known for my hand, for he hath been shut in, to enter into a city of gates and bar.'
And the time that David abode in the country of the Philistines was a year and four months.
And Samuel groweth up; and Jehovah hath been with him, and hath not let fall any of his words unto the earth;
His parents did not know that this was from Yahweh; he was seeking for an occasion against the Philistines. And it came to pass at that time the Philistines reigned in Israel.
And the Angel of Jehovah said unto Manoah, Though thou shouldest detain me, I will not eat of thy bread; and if thou wilt thou shalt offer a burnt-offering, offer it up to Jehovah. For Manoah knew not that he was the Angel of Jehovah.
After whom dost thou pursue? After a dead flea. after a dog,
And when Abigail saw David, she quickly rose off her ass, fell on her face before him.
And David checked his men with these words, and suffered them that they should not rise against Saul. And Saul rose up out of the cave, and journeyed way.
For he of whom these things are said, belongs to a different tribe, which no one hath been attached unto the service of the altar.
And the children of Benjamin said, They are smitten down before us, as at the first. But the children of Israel said, Let us flee, and draw them from the city unto the highways.
And David said to Abner Art not thou a man? and who is like unto thee in Israel? and why hast thou not guarded thy lord the king? for one of the people came in to destroy the king thy lord.
Then David said, "Will the men of Keilah deliver me and my men into the hand of Saul?" Yahweh said, "They shall deliver thou up."
And unto the messenger of Manoah saith Jehovah, `What thy name? when thy words come to pass, then we have honorable thee.'
he went out by a postern door. And the king's servants entering in saw the gates of the parlour shut, and they spoken: Perhaps he is easing nature in his summer parlour.
And although they all were approved through their faith, they did not receive that which was promised,
And the people answer him the same words voice, saying, These things shall be given to the man that shall slay him.
And thou shalt make straight steps with thy feet: that no one, halting, may go astray; But rather be healed.
Behold therefore, and take knowledge of all the lurking places where he hides himself, and come again unto me with certainty, and I will go with you. It shall happen, if he be in the land, that I will seek him out among all the thousands of Judah."
And Nabal answer David's servants, and said, Who is David? and who is the son of Jesse: there be the countries, and servants now a days that break away every man from his master.
And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and they slew the Canaanites that inhabited Zephath, and utterly destroyed it. And the name of the city was called Hormah.
On that day God subdued Jabin king of Canaan before the Israelites.
And the men of Israel say, `Have ye seen this man that cometh up? for, to reproach Israel he cometh up, and it hath been -- the man that smiteth him, the king doth enrich him with great riches, and his daughter he doth give unto him, and his father's house doth make free in Israel.'
where your fathers tempted , by proving , and saw my works forty years.
And David took the head of the Philistine brought it to Jerusalem: but his armour he put in his tent.
And she said, I will surely go with thee: thou takest notwithstanding the journey that shall not be for thine honor: for Jehovah shall sell Sisera into the hand of a woman. And Deborah arose, and went with Barak to Kedesh.
And David `Blessed Abigail to saith Jehovah, God of Israel, who hath sent thee this day to meet me,
And Nahash the Ammonite came up, and encamped against Jabesh-Gilead. And all the men of Jabesh said unto Nahash, Make a covenant with us, and we will serve thee.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Jephthah, that is the cause we have return unto thee: therefore go with us and fight against the children of Ammon, and we will make thee our head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
And when Saul saw the camp of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart greatly trembled.
David arose and went, he and his men, and killed two hundred men of the Philistines. And David brought their foreskins, and they gave them in full number unto the king, that he might be the king's son-in-law. Then Saul gave him Michal his daughter to wife.
Now when they came, looked upon Eliab he said, knowing that the man of the Lord's election is before him.
That thou mayest be holy and gentle, children of God perfect in a perverse and perverse generation, among whom thou art seen as lights in the world,
And David goeth up thence, and abideth in fortresses En-gedi.
And they put his armour in the house of Ashtaroth; and they fastened his body to the wall of Beth-shan.
Now all the troops of the Philistines were gathered together to Aphec: and Israel also camped by the fountain which is in Jezrahel.
Now Heli was ninety and eight years old, and his eyes were dim, and he could not see.
So he sent, and brought him. Now he was ruddy with goodly eyes, and of handsome appearance. And Yahweh said, "Arise, anoint him, for this is he."
Manoah said unto his wife, "We shall surely die, because we have seen God."
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the citizens of Shechem; and the citizens of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech
Therefore it behoveth more abundantly to take heed to the things heard, lest we may glide aside,
And Kish the father of Saul, and Ner, the father of Abner were sons of Abiel.
And all of this assembly shall know that Yahweh doeth not rescue with sword nor with spear, for the battle belongs unto Jehovah, and he will give thee into our hands!"
Now in the things which we are saying, the main tip is this. We have such a high priest, that sat down on the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens,
So Jephthah passed over to the children of Ammon to fight with them; and Jehovah gave them into his hand.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ with thy spirit. Amen.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto thy voice in all that ye said unto me, and have made a king over thee.
As faith, Noah, being warned concerning things not yet seen, moved with godly fear, prepared a ship for the saving of his house, through which he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is according to faith.
The shaft of his spear was like a weaver's beam and the tip of his spear weighed six hundred iron shekels. His shield bearer was walking in front of him.
And the men of Israel, other than Benjamin, were four hundred thousand in number, all armed with swords; they were all mighty men.
They shall ask how thou doest and will give thee two loaves, which ye shall take from their hand.
And he took both the bullocks, he cut them in pieces, and sent them into all the coasts of Israel by messengers, voice, saying, Whosoever shall not come forth, and follow Saul and Samuel, so shall it be done unto his oxen. And the fear of Jehovah fell upon the people, and they went out as one man.
Now therefore, if ye have here five cakes of bread, deliver them into my hand, or whatsoever thou believest.
And when thou shalt hear what they are saying, then shall thy hands be strengthened, and thou shalt go down more enemies' secure unto the camp. And he went down with Phara his servant into part of the camp, where was the watch of men in arms do bend
Marriage must be held in honor by all, and the marriage bed be undefiled, because God will judge sexually immoral people, and adulterers.
But Saul held his peace that day, for his heed was, Something is come to pass, and makest him unclean: it is known that he is not clean.
Rejoice in Jehovah always; again, I will say, rejoice;
But David said unto Saul, "Who am I, and that are my relatives, the clan of my father in Israel, that I should be a son-in-law to the king?"
For lack covetousness the conduct, being content with the things present, for He hath said, `No, I will not forsake leave, no, nor thee,'
Now there was a certain man of Ramathaim Zophim, of the hill country of Ephraim, and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephraimite.
And this will we do, if God permit.
And the man Micah had a house of gods, and made an ephod, and teraphim, and consecrated one of his sons, that became his priest.
Then Jerubbaal, that is, Gideon, and all the people that are with him, rose up early and encamped by the side of the well of Harod; the tents of Midian were on the north side of him, under the hill of Moreh in the valley.
And Joash saith unto all that have stood against him, `Ye, do ye plead for ye Baal? -- do ye save him? he that pleadeth for him shall be put to death during the morning; if he doth he himself a god plead against him, because he hath broken down his altar.'
"The trees said unto the desireth the tree, 'Come and reign over us.'
Therefore fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth and with thy whole heart, for thou hast seen his marvellous works that he hath done among you.
And Jehovah said unto him, Surely I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midian as one man.
and we have been even we, like unto all the nations; and our king hath judged us, and gone out before us, and fought our battles.'
And his daughter in law, Phinehas' wife, conceived, near to be delivered: and when she heard the tidings that the ark of God was taken, and that her father in law and her husband were dead, she bowed herself and travailed; for her pangs came upon her.
Then Ahimelech answer the king, and said, "Who among all thy servants is so faithful as David who is the king's son-in-law, and is brought into thy council, and is honorable in thy house?
And Elcana went to Ramatha, home. but the child ministered in the sight of Jehovah before the face of Heli the priest.
And Samuel saith, `Art not thou, if thou little in thine own eyes, head of the tribes of Israel? and Jehovah doth anoint thee for king over Israel,
whose voice the earth shook therefore, and now hath he promised, saying, `Yet once -- I shake not only the earth, but also the heaven;'
And the house hath been full of men and women, and thither all the princes of the Philistines, and upon the roof about three thousand men and women, that look upon the wanton of Samson.
Israel was very poor because of the presence of the Midianites, and the Israelites cried out unto Jehovah I
For we have not a high priest that is not able to touch the heart of our weak flesh; but we have one that hath been tried in all points as we ourselves are tempted, but not sin.
Be glad in Jehovah, at all seasons: again I say, All hail.
Behold, the days come, that thine arm and the arm of thy father's people shall be cut off;
Of whom the world was not worthy; to wander in deserts, in mountains, and in dens, and in caves of the earth.
And her adversary also provoked her sore, for to make her fret, because Jehovah had shut up her womb.
Then Eli called Samuel, and said, Samuel, my son. And he answered, Here am I.
But he said unto me, 'Behold, ye shall conceive, and bear a son; and now drink no wine nor strong drink, and don't eat any unclean thing; for the child shall be a Nazirite unto God from the womb to the day of his death.'"
Therefore David ran, and stood upon the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew it out of the sheath thereof, and slew him, and cut off his head therewith. And when the Philistines saw their champion was dead, they fled.
Follow peace with all men, and holiness: without which no man shall see God.
David's men said unto him, "Behold, we are afraid here in Judah. How much more then if we go to Keilah against the hosts of the Philistines?"
Now there was no smith to be found in all the land of Israel, for the Philistines had taken this precaution, lest the Hebrews should make them swords or spears.
And Jephthah sent messengers to the king of the Ammonites, saying, "What is between me and thee that thou art come unto me to fight against my land?"
But the other of love, knowing that I am set for the defence of the gospel.
And he was sore athirst, and called upon Jehovah, and said, Thou hast given this great deliverance into the hand of thy servant: and now shall I die for thirst, and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised?
not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the custom with some; but encouraging [one another], and by so much more as ye see the day drawing at hand.
And his sons did not walk in his ways, but moved by the love of money took rewards, and were not righteous in judgment.
And a high priest over the house of God:
having thirty sons that rode upon thirty ass colts, and were princes of thirty cities, which from his name were called Havoth Jair that is, the cities of Jair until this present day in the land of Galaad.
So they cut down boughs from the trees, every man as fast as he could, and followed their leader. And surrounding the fort they set it upon fire: and so it came to pass that with the smoke and with the fire a thousand persons were killed, men and women together, of the inhabitants of the tower of Sichem.
Manoah said unto Yahweh's angel, "Please stay with us, that we may make a kid ready for you."
And it was told Saul that David was fled to Gath: and he sought no more again for him.
Nevertheless, whereto we have already attained, let us walked by the same reign, let us mind the same thing.
that the violence done to the seventy sons of Jerubbaal might come, and that their blood might be laid upon Abimelech their brother, that killed them, and upon the men of Shechem, that strengthened his hands to kill his brethren.
Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering (for he is faithful that hath promised),
And Achis believed David, voice, saying, He hath done much harm unto his people Israel: therefore he shall be my servant for ever.
And David ran, and stood upon the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew it out of its sheath, and killed him consumed them; and cut off his head with it. And when the Philistines saw that the hero was dead, they fled.
And when ye shall see the daughters of Silo come out, as the custom is, to dance, come ye on a sudden out of the vineyards, and catch ye every man his wife among them, and go into the land of Benjamin.
And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest what Saul hath done, how he hath cut off them that have familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land: layest wherefore then thou a snare for I live, to cause me to die?
`After whom hath the king of Israel come out? after whom thou art pursuing? -- after a dead dog! after one flea!
Then Saul sent messengers to Jesse and said, Send me David thy son, that is with the sheep.
For so he was sick almost to death: but God had mercy on him; and not only upon him, but upon me, that I might not mourn upon their breasts.
And it came to pass, when the morrow was come that Saul put the people in three companies: and he came into the midst of the camp in the morning watch, and he slew the Ammonites, until the day grew hot, and the rest were scattered, that two of them were not left together.
Is not this David, of whom they sang one to another in dances, saying, Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
So Midian was subdued before the children of Israel, and they lifted up their heads hold ye your The land had rest forty years in the days of Gideon.
And he said unto him, Ah Jehovah, wherewith shall I save Israel? behold, my thousand is the poorest in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
And he ceaseth from prophesying, and cometh in unto the high place,
For we are the circumcision, that worship God in the Spirit, and rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh:
Remember the captives, as though thou wast fellow-prisoners; remember the mistreated, as though ye yourselves also are being mistreated in the body.
And Jehovah struck a terror into Sisara, and all his chariots, and all his multitude, with the edge of the sword, at the sight of Barac, insomuch that Sisara leaping down from off his chariot, fled away upon foot.
And Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren. And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David from that day forward. And Samuel rose up, and went to Ramah.
Jehovah judge between me and thee, and avenge me of Jehovah thee; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
for they were not bearing that which is commanded, `And if a beast may toucheth the mountain, it shall be stoned, or with an arrow shot through,'
Then Gad the prophet said unto David, "You stay in the stronghold; should not leave and go into the land of Judah." So David left and came to the forest of Hereth.
And when he was lifted up his eyes, and he saw a wayfaring man in the street of the city: and the old man said, Whither goest thou? and whence comest thou?
Elkanah her husband said unto her, "Do that which is good in thine eyes. Wait until thou hast weaned him; only may establish his Yahweh word." So the woman waited and nursed her son, until she weaned him.
Then said Saul unto that Michal Why hast thou deceived me so, and sent away mine enemy, that he is escaped? And Michal said unto Saul, He said unto me, Let me go: why should I slay thee?
that the violence to the seventy sons of Jerubbaal might come, and their blood be laid upon Abimelech their brother, that slew them, and upon the citizens of Shechem, that had strengthened his hands to slay his brethren.
And Gaal goeth out before the masters of Shechem, and fighteth against Abimelech
and behold, and behold, if the daughters of Shiloh, come out to dance in the dances, then come out of the vineyards, and catch ye every man his wife of the daughters of Shiloh, and go to the land of Benjamin.
As faith Noah, being moved by the fear of God, prepared an ark for the salvation of his family, because God had given him tidings of things that were not seen at the time; and through it the world was judged by him; and he bought for his inheritance the righteousness which is by faith.
And Gaal went out before the men of Shechem, and fought with Abimelech.
They go down in the extremity of the city, and Samuel hath said unto Saul, `Say unto the young man that he pass over before us (and he passeth on), and thou, stand at this time, and I cause thee to hear the word of God.'
He restored the eleven hundred pieces of silver to his mother, then his mother said, "I most surely dedicate the silver to Yahweh from my hand for my son, to make a engraved image and a molten image. Now therefore I will restore it to you."
And Gaal son of Ebed -- cometh also his brethren -- and they pass over into Shechem, and the masters of Shechem trust in him,
And Abimelech and the detachments that with him have cast and stand at the dedication of the gate of the city, and the two detachments have cast against all that are in the field, and smite them,
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar the son of Aaron was standing before it: and said, Am I not yet repent of the battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I give it up? And Jehovah said, Go wear away; for to-morrow I will give him into your hand.
And they took their daughters as wives of their own, and they gave their daughters unto their sons, and they served their gods.
and David cried unto the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, "Don't thou answer, Abner?" Then Abner answered, "Who are ye that the gnashing unto the king?"
And the thornbush said unto the trees, 'If in truth thou art anointing me as king over thee, then come and take refuge in my shade; if not, let fire go out from the thornbush and devour the cedars of Lebanon.'
Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon; and Israel said unto him, 'Please let us pass through thy land unto my place.'
And he said unto them, Follow after me: for Jehovah hath delivered thine enemies the Moabites into thy hand. And they went down after him, and took the fords of the Jordan toward Moab, and suffered not a man to pass over.
And David prevailed over the Philistine, with a sling and a stone, and he struck, and slew the Philistine. And as David had no sword in his hand,
Then Saul came up to the city of Amalek and set an ambush in the wadi.
And again the Israelites did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and Ehud, died.
Then went Samson unto Gaza, and saw there a harlot, and went in unto her.
And also the Hope of Israel shall not lie nor repent; for he is not a man, that he should repent.
Because thou didst not obey the voice of Jehovah, neither didst thou execute the wrath of his indignation upon Amalec. Therefore hath Jehovah done unto thee what thou sufferest this day.
So I took her, and cut her into parts which I sent throughout all the country of the inheritance of Israel; for they have wrought folly in Israel.
Now the sons of Saul were Jonathan and Ishvi, and Malchi-shua; and these are the names of his daughters: the elder was called Merab and the younger Michal;
and if ye are not able to declare unto me, then ye hast given me thirty linen shirts, and thirty changes of garments.' And they say unto him, `Put forth thy riddle, and we hear it!'
Also before they burnt the fat, the servant of the priest came, and said to the man that sacrificed: Give me flesh to boil for the priest: for I will not take of thee sodden flesh, but raw.
Abide thou with me, fear not: for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life; but with me thou shalt be in safeguard.
And when Saul heard this he was appeased with the words of Jonathan and swore: As Jehovah liveth he shall not be slain.
And as thy life hath been much set by this day in my sight, let my life be much set by in the sight of Jehovah, and let him deliver me from all distress.
But certain base fellows said, How shall this man be our saviour? And having not the persons of him, they gave him no thereof.
And Jonathan said unto David, Saul, my father, is counsellors of thy woman: so therefore be in the morning, and keep evil, and hid place:
who will repent when the body of our humiliation to be conformed to the body of his glory, according to the working whereby he is able even to subject all things unto himself.
And now, behold, the king walketh before thee; and I am old and grayheaded; and, behold, my sons are with thee: and I have henceforth bereave before thee from my childhood unto this day.
And the men of Jabesh said, To-morrow we shall come forth unto you, and ye shall do with us according to all that is good in thy sight.
She said unto her young men, "Go upon before me. Behold, I am behind you." But she didn't tell her husband, Nabal.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee: for thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah hath rejected thee from being king over Israel.
And he judged Israel, three and twenty years, and he died and was buried in Samir.
and they spake unto her: Give me, I beseech thee, a little water, for I am very thirsty. She opened an alabaster cruse of milk, and gave him to drink, and covered him.
And so therefore know and consider what ye should do: for evil hath been decided against our master and against all his household, and he is such a wicked man, began it can cause with him!"
Now all discipline seemeth for the moment not to be joyful but painful, but latter it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness for them that are corrected by it.
And the house of Joseph, they also went up against Bethel: and Jehovah was with them.
And Samson said unto them, "Let me tell thee a riddle. If ye can fully explain it unto me within the seven days of the feast, and find it out, to thee will I give thirty linen garments and thirty festal garments.
And Jerubbaal, that is Gideon, arose early, and all the people that were with him, and they encamped beside the latter Harod; and he had the camp of Midian on the north by the hill of Moreh in the valley.
And she weepeth for it the seven days which their banquet hath been, and it cometh to pass on the seventh day, that he declareth unto her, for she hath distressed him; and she declareth the riddle unto the sons of her people.
And he divided the three hundred men into three companies, and he set a trumpet in every man's hand, and empty pitchers, and torches within the pitchers.
For thou shalt lo, conceive, and bear a son, and no razor shall come upon his head; for the lad shall be a Nazarite of God from the womb; and he shall begin to save Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
And Gideon came to the Jordan, and passed over, he, and the three hundred men that were with him, yet faint, pursuing them.
And the women answer [one another] as they played, and said, Saul hath smitten his thousands, And David his ten thousands.
whose end destruction, whose god the belly, and glory in their shame, that mind earthly things:)
And David took the head of the Philistine and brought it to Jerusalem, and set his weapons in his tent.
For I will be merciful unto their unrighteousness, and their sins, and their iniquities will I remember no more.
And there was honey upon the face of the field, and all the people came to the honey, which is the bees having gone from it;
And David cried unto the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Answerest thou not, Abner? Then Abner answer and said, Who art thou that criest to the king?
The children of Israel departed from thence at that time, every man to his tribe and to his house, and they each went out from thence to his own inheritance.
And early in the morning he arose, and went to Saul; and it was told Samuel that Saul was come to Carmel and set up a pillar, and was gone from thence down to Gilgal.
Michal took the teraphim, and laid it in the bed, and put a pillow of goats' hair at the head of the ram. and covered it with clothes.
(And the children of Dan built the graven image for a spoil; and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, and his sons were priests for the tribe of the Danites until the day that the ark was taken prisoner.)
For the countries, live, of whom I spoke about to you the countries, and times, but now speak concerning even weeping, as the enemies of the cross of Christ,
So David and his men arose, and went, and slew two hundred of the Philistines; and David took their foreskin and gave the number of them unto the king, that he might be the king's son-in-law. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter to wife.
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace: thy way walk in the Lord.
And Saul rear an altar unto Jehovah: this was the first altar which he built unto Jehovah.
And the people answer him after this manner, saying, So shall it be done unto the man that killeth him.
As faith he went out of Egypt, not being repenteth him by fear of the wrath of the king; for he kept on his way, as seeing him that is unseen.
and again, `Behold I and the children that God did give unto me.'
and the five princes of the Philistines have seen , and their purifications accomplished, back Ekron, in that day.
a minister of the sanctuary and of the true tabernacle which Jehovah set up, not man.
and having fallen away, to renew them again to repentance, because they have crucified again for themselves the Son of God, and held him up to contempt.
And he said unto Zebee and Salmana: What manner of men were they whom ye slew in Thabor? They answered: They were like thee, and one of them as the son of a king.
And the light of God was yet burning, while Samuel was encamped in the temple of Jehovah where the ark of God was,
And the children of Dan sent of their family five men from their coasts, men of valour, from Zorah, and from Eshtaol, to spy out the land, and to seek it; and they said unto them, Go, seek the land: that when they came to mount Ephraim, to the house of Micah, they lodged there.
Therefore Eli said unto Samuel, "Go, lie down. It shall be, if he calls you, that ye shall say, 'Speak, Yahweh; for thy servant hears.'" So Samuel went and lay down in his stead.
And Saul said, Give thy lot between my son Jonathan and me. And Jonathan was taken.
And in that day they called him Jerubbaal, saying, Let Baal, plead with him, because he hath broken down his altar.
in order to prove Israel whether or not they would observe the way of Jehovah, to walked in it just as their ancestors did."
Then Samuel said unto Saul, "Stay, and I will tell thee what Yahweh said unto me last night." He saith unto him, "Say on."
And when Gideon was come, behold, there was a man that told a dream unto his fellow, and said, Behold, I dreamed a dream, and, lo, a cake of barley bread tumbled into the host of Midian, and came unto a tent, and smote it that it fell, and thrust down it, that the tent lay along.
And the people of Beth-shemesh, were cut their grain in the valley, and lifted up their eyes they saw the ark and were filled with joy when they saw it.
and assembly of the firstborn that are enrolled in heaven, and unto God the judge of all, and to the spirits of righteous people made perfect,
But the woman saith unto him, "Look, ye know what Saul did, how he exterminated the mediums and the soothsayers from the there! Why art thou setting a trap for my life to kill me?"
And Jehovah came, and stood, and called as at the other times, Samuel, Samuel! And Samuel said, Speak, for thy servant heareth.
Now the Philistines gathered together all their hosts unto Aphek: and the Israelites pitched by a fountain which is in Jezreel.
When they drew nigh, Jebus the day was far gone; and the servant said unto his master, Now let us go from our way into this city of the Jebusite, and take our night's rest there.
He made a vow unto Jehovah, voice, saying, If thou wilt deliver the children of Ammon into my hand,
considering reproach endured for the sake of Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt, for he was toward the reward.
And his brethren and all the house of his father came down, and took him, and brought him up, and buried him between Zorah, and Eshtaol, in the buryingplace of Manoah his father. And he judged Israel twenty years.
And Elon the Zebulonite died, and was buried in Aijalon, in the country of Zebulun, twelve cities.
And of the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels winds, and his servants lightnings, of fire:
And I said unto you, I am Jehovah your God; fear not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell: but ye have not obeyed my voice.
For by this the ancients obtained a testimony.
And the citizens of Gibeah rose against me, and surrounded the house for my sake, by night; they heed to slay me, and my concubine have they humbled so that she died.
For he of whom these things are said belongs to another tribe, from which none hath officiated at the altar.
And the men of Israel numbered themselves, apart from Benjamin, four hundred thousand men, drawing sword, each of these a man of war.
Awake, awake, 'Awake, awake, Deborah! utter a song! Arise, Barak, and lead away thy captives, thou son of Abinoam.'
And he saith unto Jether, his first-born, `Rise, slay them;' and the young man hath not drawn his sword, for he hath been afraid, for he yet a youth.
When Samuel grew old he appointed his sons as judges over Israel.
The messengers therefore came to Gabaa of Saul: and they spoke these words in the ears of the people: and all the people lifted up their voices, and wept.
and if not -- fire cometh forth from Abimelech and devoureth the masters of Shechem and the house of Millo, and fire cometh forth from the masters of Shechem and from the house of Millo, and devoureth Abimelech.'
They answered: What is it we ought to render unto him for sin? and they answered:
and the people taketh of the spoil of the flock and herd, whether the first part of the devoted thing, for sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.'
For where we sin wilfully after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there no more sacrifice for sins, remains any
And the sons of Israel cry unto Jehovah, saying, `We have sinned against Thee, even because we have forsaken our God, and serve the Baalim.'
And the women, answered one another in their song, said, Saul hath slew his thousands and David his ten thousands.
And Gedeon made an ephod thereof, and put it in his city Ephra. And all Israel committed fornication with it, and it became a ruin to Gedeon and to all his house.
And the Philistines hear that the sons of Israel have gathered themselves to Mizpeh; and the princes of the Philistines go up against Israel, and the sons of Israel hear, and are afraid of the presence of the Philistines.
The hand of Midian prevailed against Israel: and because of Midian the children of Israel sanctified the dens which are in the mountains, and the caves, and the strongholds.
And Gaal spoke again, and said, Behold, people are coming down from the high part of the land, and one company cometh along by the way of the Magician's oak.
And David and Abishai she came to the people by night, and behold, Saul lay and sleep within the wagon-defence, and his spear stuck in the ground at his head; and Abner and the people lay round about him.
Abiathar told David, saying, Saul had slain Yahweh's priests.
Samuel also said unto Saul, Jehovah sent me to anoint thee to be king over his people, over Israel: now therefore thou hearken unto the voice of the words of Jehovah.
And at the end of two months she returned unto her father, that did with her as he had said in his oath: and she had any man by a man. So it became a statute in Israel,
And Saul feared David, because Jehovah was with David, and were departed from Saul.
And the woman said unto him, but ye know what Saul hath done, how he hath put away out of the land them that have familiar spirits, and the enchanters, lies: why should thee, by a trick, set me in danger of death?
The descendants of Benjamin did likewise, and they he sought for each of them from the dancers whom they seized, and they went and returned to their territory, and they rebuilt the cities and they lived in them.
(For my father fought for you, and adventured his life far, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian:
And Gideon son of Joash dieth, in a good old age, and is buried in the burying-place of Joash his father, in Ophrah, of the Abi-Ezrite.
and her adversity also hath provoked her greatly, so as to make her tremble, for Jehovah hath shut up her womb.
Let thy covetousness, manners be without contented with such things as thou have; for he hath spoken: I will not leave thee, neither will I forsake thee.
They behold, a man coming out of the city, and they said unto him: shew us the entrance into the city, and we will shew thee lovingkindness.
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath made women childless, so shall thy mother be childless among women. And Samuel hewed Agag in pieces before Jehovah in Gilgal.
And Heli heard the noise of the voice, and he said, What meaneth the noise of this uproar? But he made haste, and came, and told Heli.
which a simile in regard unto the present time, wherein both gifts and sacrifices are offered, which are not able, in regard to conscience, to make serving, him that is perfect
Then Samuel took a flask of oil, and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, "Has not Yahweh anointed thee as leader over his inheritance?
And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were gone away from me, and thou wast not come at the time set and the Philistines were gathered together at Michmash;
And these are the nations that Jehovah left hand, to prove Israel by them, all that had not known all the wars of Canaan;
"The trees said unto the vine, 'Come and reign over us.'
Then Deborah and Barak the son of Abinoam sang in that day, saying,
And Saul commanded his servants, saying, Commune with David in secret, And say, Behold, the king hath delight in thee, and all his servants love thee: now therefore be the king's son in law.
and that a man doth find his enemy, and hath sent him away in a good manner; and Jehovah doth repay thee good for that which thou didst unto me this day.
If in the fear of Jehovah thou art his servants, to obey his voice, and not going against the commandments of Jehovah, but to cleave unto Jehovah thy God, thou and the king rule over thee, then it shall be well:
but ye did well, having communicated with my tribulation;
"Yahweh kills, and maketh alive. He brings down to Sheol, and brings up.
And to the angels indeed he saith: He that maketh his angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire.
And thus shall ye say to him that liveth in prosperity, Peace be both to thee, and peace be unto thine house, and peace be unto all that thou hast.
While Samuel was burnt sacrificing the offering, the Philistines drew near for the battle against Israel. But Yahweh thundered against the Philistines with a great noise on that day, and threw them into confusion that they were defeated before Israel.
When the men of Ashdod, saw that it was so, they said, "The ark of the God of Israel shall not stay with us; for his hand is severe upon us, and upon Dagon our god."
And indeed them of the sons of Levi that receive the priesthood have a commandment to collect a tenth from the people according to the law, that is, from their brethren, although they are descended from Abraham.
And now I have heard that thou hast shearers: now thy shepherds that were with us, we hurt them not, neither was there ought missing unto them, all the while they were in Carmel.
The people the ones commanding Gilead, said unto each other, "Who is the man that shall begin to battle against the Ammonites? He shall be as head over all the inhabitants of Gilead."
But emptied himself, taking the likeness of a servant, being made in the likeness of men, and in habit found as a man.
For we have not a high priest which cannot smite thee with the heart of our infirmities; but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet not sin.
Now therefore hear the voice of thee, and let me give thee a little bread; and take food to establish you, when ye pass on.
and his sons have not henceforth bereave in his ways, and turning aside after the dishonest gain, and take a bribe, and turning aside judgment.
Let us go forth therefore to him without the camp, bearing his reproach.
All the mighty arose, and went all night, took Saul's body and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan; and they came to Jabesh and burned them there.
Now when Samuel was old, he made his sons judges over Israel.
And when David was returned, after the Philistine was slain, Abner took him, and brought him in before Saul, with the head of the Philistine in his hand.
The Philistines also were assembled unto battle against Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and a multitude of people besides, as the sand in the sea shore for abundance. And going up they camped in Machmas at the east of Bethaven.
And Saul sent the messengers to see David, saying, Bring him up unto me in the bed, that I may slew him.
But if ye cannot explain unto me, then shall ye give me thirty shirts, and thirty changes of garments. And they said unto him, Propound thy riddle, that we may hear it.
Then Saul said, "Disperse yourselves among the troops and say unto them, 'Bring unto me each one his ox and each his sheep and slaughter them in this place, and eat, but thou shalt not have sinned against Yahweh by eating the number with the blood.'" So all the troops brought them, each leading his ox, in his hand that night, and slaughtered it there.
The prophet Gad, said unto David, "Don't stay in the stronghold. Depart, and go into the land of Judah." Then David departed, and came into the forest of Hereth.
And there was a young man out of Bethlehemjudah of the house of Judah, who was of and he sojourned there.
But the troops, the men of Israel, encouraged themselves, and again they arranged their battle rows in the place where they had arranged themselves the first day.
Thus also Christ did not glorify himself to become high priest, but the one that said unto him, "You art my Son, this day have I begotten you,"
for if indeed, he were upon earth, he would not be a priest -- (there being the priests that are offering according to the law, the gifts,
But which of the angels hath he told all the "Sit on my right hand, until I make thine enemies the footstool of thy feet?"
And Deborah, a woman inspired, wife of Lapidoth, she judgeth Israel at that time,
being confident of this very thing, that he that began a good work in thou shalt utterly it until the day of Jesus Christ.
The officials of Succoth said, "Is the hand of Zebah and Zalmunna in thy hand now, that we should give bread to thy army?"
And this is yet more known if a second priest is come up who is like Melchizedek
And they served Jehovah all his days and the days of the ancients, that lived a long time after him, and who knew all the works of Jehovah, which he had done for Israel.
and ye have forsaken ye -- Me, and serve other gods, therefore I add not to save thee.
At her feet he fell: he fainted, and he died: he rolled before her feet, and he lay lifeless and wretched.
And the king saith unto runners, them standing by him, `Turn about, and slew the priests of Jehovah, because their hand also with David, and because they have known that he is fleeing, and have not naked mine, ear;' and the servants of the king have not been willing to put forth their hand to come against the priests of Jehovah.
Now it came to pass one day, that Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man that bore his armour: Come, and let us go over to the garrison of the Philistines which is on the other side of yonder stead. But he told not this to his father.
And he stripped off his clothes also, and prophesied before Samuel in like manner, and lay down naked all that day, and all that night. Wherefore they say, Is Saul also among the prophets?
Now there was a certain man of Ramathaimzophim, of mount Ephraim, and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephrathite:
And all the company speak, send, and unto the sons of Benjamin that in the rock Rimmon, and proclaim unto them peace;
And Joash said unto all that stood by him, Wilt *ye* contend for *ye* Baal? or shall save him? he that contends for him, he shall surely be put to death whilst it is yet morning. If he be a god, let him plead for himself, because they have broken down his altar.
saying, Know ye that I will bless thee, and make ye very great.
Yahweh said unto Samuel, "Listen unto their voice, and make them a king." Samuel said unto the men of Israel, "Everyone go to your own city."
And he said unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel: I brought Israel out of Egypt, and redeemed thee out of the hand of the Egyptians and from all the kingdoms that kept thou down:
Remember captive, as bound with ; them that are evil-treated, being yourselves also in body.
Wherefore when he cometh into the world, he saith: oblation Sacrifice and thou wouldest not: but a body thou hast fitted unto me:
And she was in bitterness of soul, and prayed unto Jehovah, and wept sore.
Howbeit Sisera fled away upon his feet unto the tent of Jael the wife of Heber, the Kenite: for there was peace between Jabin the king of Hazor, and the house of Heber, the Kenite.
And Gideon cometh -- and the hundred men that with him -- into the extremity of the camp, the beginning of the midst watch (it just only hath confirmed the watchmen), and they stroke with trumpets -- dashing in pieces also the pitchers which in their hand;
for in their coming up out of Egypt, Israel goeth in the wilderness unto the Red Sea, and cometh in unto Kadesh,
Then Samson went down to Timnah (and his father and his mother,) and came to the vineyards of Timnah; and a young lion and, behold, there came out at him.
Jonathan cried after the lad, "Go fast! Hurry! Don't delay!" Jonathan's lad gathered up the arrows, and came to his master.
Then Saul said unto David, thou, my son David: Blessed be thou shalt both do great things, and also shalt yet prevail. So David went on his way, and Saul returned unto his place.
But that which is briers and thorns beareth rejected, and is nigh unto cursing; whose end shall be burnt.
So Samuel returned with Saul; and Saul worshiped Jehovah I
And when he had gifts unto him, he presented the followed his companions that came along with him.
And he judged Israel twenty and three years, and died, and was buried in Shamir.
And Jehovah saved Israel that day. And the battle went over the Bethaven.
And the whole assembly sent to speak unto the children of Benjamin that were at the cliff of Rimmon, and to proclaim peace unto them.
and Jesse took a donkey loaded with bread and a bottle of wine and one young goat, and sent them to Saul by the hand of David his son.
Then the men of the city said unto Joash "Bring forth thy son, that he may die, because he hath broken down the altar of Baal, and because he hath cut down the Asherah, that was by it."
For men indeed swear by a greater one, and in every dispute of theirs also the oath is final for confirmation.
And Ibzan died and his body was gathered at Beth-lehem.
Then David said unto Jonathan "Who shall tell me, except what thy father answers you is harsh?"
and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Jehovah, to the glory of God the Father.
And Saul and all the Israelites heard these words, the Philistine were dismayed, and sore afraid.
And the tribes of Israel sent messengers to all the families of Benjamin, saying, What wickedness is this that hath been done among you?
And when his armour-bearer saw that Saul was dead, he fell likewise upon his sword, and died with him.
Then the Philistines Jehovah, Who hath done this thing? And it was answered: Samson the son in law of the Thamnathite, because he took away his wife, and gave her to another, hath done these things. And the Philistines went up and burnt both the woman and her father.
So Saul's uncle said unto him, "Please tell me, what went Samuel say unto you?"
And they turned aside thither, to go in, to lodge in Gibeah. And he went in, and sat down in the broad place of the city; and there was none that received him into his house to pass the night.
And Saul built an altar unto Jehovah: this was the first altar he built unto Jehovah.
And the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten: for the men of Israel gave place unto the Benjamites, because they trusted unto the liers in wait which they had set beside Gibeah.
whose voice shook the earth at that time, but now he hath promised, saying, "Yet once more I will shake not only the earth but also heaven."
Which was a figure for the time then present, wherein were both gifts and offer sacrifices, that could not make him that did the service perfect, as pertaining to the conscience;
And they cut off his head, and stripped off his armour, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to publish it in the house of their idols, and among the people.
But when they came up out of Egypt, then Israel henceforth bereave through the wilderness even unto the Red sea, and came to Kadesh.
And they send messengers unto the inhabitants of Kirjath-Jearim, saying, `The Philistines have sent back the ark of Jehovah; come down, take it up unto you.'
When he again brings in the firstborn into the world he saith, "Let all the angels of God worship him."
And God humbleth on that day Jabin king of Canaan before the sons of Israel,
Then Samuel went to Ramah, and Saul went up to his house in Gibeah of Saul.
for thy participation in the gospel from the first day until now,
All that were numbered of the days that David lived in the country of the Philistines was a full year and four months.
And his brethren come down, and all the house of his father, and lift him up, and bring him up, and bury him between Zorah, and Eshtaol, in the burying-place of Manoah his father: and he hath judged Israel twenty years.
And he went down and spoken with the woman; and she pleased Samson whole.
But the Israelites had compassion for Benjamin, their relatives, and they said, "Today one tribe is cut off from Israel.
So the Spirit of Yahweh took possession of Gideon, and he blew the trumpet, and the Abiezrites were called to follow him.
And David said, Shall the men of Ceila deliver me, and my men, into the hand of Saul? And Jehovah spoken: They shall deliver thee up.
And Jephte again sent by them, and commanded them to say to the king of Ammon:
For this Melchisedec, king of Salem priest of the most high God, who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him;
And it was told Sisera that Barak, the son of Abinoam, was gone up unto mount Tabor.
He shall bring up the tithe of thy sheep: and ye shall be his servants.
And the word of Jehovah came to Samuel, saying,
Now the female donkeys of Kish the father of Saul rose lost, and Kish said unto Saul his son, "Please take one of the servants with you, and rising up; go and seek the female donkeys."
Now when David had spoken these words unto Saul, Saul, said, Is this thy voice, David my son? And Saul wept.
Now there was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the Danites that could set and his name was Manoah; and his wife, had not brought forth a child.
begun to wait until his enemies are made a footstool for his feet.
And Delilah said unto Samson, "Until now thou hast mocked me, and told lies unto me. Tell me how ye can be bound." And he said unto her, "If thou weave seven set my head with warp-threads."
And it cometh to pass, on that night, that saith unto him, Jehovah `Rise, go down into the camp, for I have delivered it into thy hand;
For he hath spoken this somewhere concerning the seventh day, "God rested on the seventh day from all his works";
Yahweh said unto the children of Israel, "Didn't I save thee from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
Now the Midianites, Amalekites, and David and all the people of the east were lying in the valley, as it were a great multitude of locusts; their camels were without number: as numerous as the sand that is on the shore of the sea.
And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest what Saul hath done, how he hath cut off the necromancers and the soothsayers out of the land; and why layest thou a snare for I live, to cause me to die?
Therefore deal it was so, with thy servant; For thou hast brought thy servant into a covenant of Yahweh with thee; but if there be iniquity in me, kill me thyself; Who why should thou bring me to thy father?"
And it is yet more manifest, if another priest according to the likeness of Melchizedek arises,
Then Saul said unto David, "Here is my first-born Merab. I will give her as thy wife. Only be a brave warrior for me, and battle the battles of Yahweh." For Saul device, "My hand shall not be against him, but let the hand of the Philistines be against him."
But Saul had given Michal his daughter, David's wife, to Phalti the son of Laish, which was of Gallim.
And Saul knew David's voice, and said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord, O king.
and take Yahweh's ark, and lay it upon the new cart. Put the jewels of gold, which thou return him for a trespass sacrifice in a coffer by its side; and send it away, that it may go.
As faith they crossed the Red Sea, as though on dry land; the Egyptians, when they made the attempt, were drowned.
And it was so: for he rose up early in the morning after, and fro. the wool in his hand, he bought a bowl full of water out of the dew upon the wool.
And Samuel took a stone, and laid it between Masphath and Sen: and he called the place, the stone of us up. And he said, Thus far Jehovah hath helped, us.
And Gaal the son of Ebed said, Who is Abimelech and who is Shechem, that we should serve him? is he not the son of Jerubbaal? and Zebul his overseer? Serve the men of Hamor the father of *we* Shechem! and why should serve him?
and Saul saith, `I give her unto him, and she is unto him for a snare, and the hand of the Philistines is upon him;' and Saul saith unto David, `By the second -- thou dost become my son-in-law to-day.'
For a covenant is of a prey, after men are dead; otherwise it is as yet of no money; whilst the testator liveth.
And Jehovah said unto Gideon, By the three hundred men that lapped will I save thee, and give Midian into thy hand; and all the people go every man to his place.
Therefore don't throw away thy boldness, which hath a great reward.
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath rent the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath delivered it into a neighbor of thine, that is better than thou.
But thou art come unto mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, to the heavenly Jerusalem, and to ten thousands of angels, unto the festal gathering
The first therefore also indeed had ordinances of service, and the sanctuary, a worldly one.
And his uncle said unto him: Tell me what Samuel said unto thee.
Then said Saul unto his armor bearer, "Draw thy sword and thrust me through with it, that these uncircumcised do not come and thrust me through and make a fool of me!" But his armor bearer was not willing to do so because he was very afraid. Therefore Saul took the sword and fell upon it.
So Samuel took a single nursing lamb, and sacrificed it as a whole burnt oblation unto Jehovah I Then Samuel cried out to Yahweh on behalf of Israel, and Yahweh answer him.
And Saul went to Gibeah, unto his house; and with him went the men of war that had been toucheth God.
And David behaved myself wisely in all his ways, and Jehovah was with him.
Are not those things which thy god Chamos possesseth, due unto thee by right? But what Jehovah our God hath obtained by conquest, shall be our possession:
But Jephthah said unto the elders of Gilead, Did ye not, ye hate me, send me away from my father's house? Why dost thou come to me now when ye are upon him?
Saul knew David's voice, and said, "Is this thy voice, my son David?" David said, "It is my voice, my lord, O king."
And the men of Ephraim said unto him, What is this thing thou hast done unto us, that thou calledst us not, when thou wentest to battle with Midian? And they disputed with him sharply.
Previously saying, whole "Sacrifices and sacrificed and burnt sacrifices and sacrifices for sin, ye didn't desire, neither had pleasure in them" (those which is made according to the law),
And the leaders of all the people, all the tribes of Israel, presented themselves in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand sword-bearing infantry.
And then as she was riding upon the donkey and was going down the ravine of the mountain, David and his men were coming down to meet her, and she met them.
And she said unto her young men, Pass over before me; behold, I follow you. But she did not tell her husband Nabal.
And as it is appointed unto men once to die, and after this the judgment:
And there fell of Benjamin eighteen thousand men; all these were men of valour.
And they say, `Rise, and we go up against them, for we have seen the land, and lo, very good; And ye are feeding silent! be not slothful to go -- to enter to possess the land.
Therefore Jehovah left those nations, without drive them out hastily; neither delivered he them into the hand of Joshua.
And because by God's law die, men once, and after that they are judgment;
So they told Saul, and he sent other messengers, and they also prophesied. Again Saul sent messengers the third time, and they also prophesied.
Take courage and behave like men, ye Philistines: lest thou come to serve the Hebrews, as they have served thee: take courage and battle.
And he took his people, and consecrate them, into three bands, and have laid wait in the field; and when he saw the people coming out of the city, he went up and fought against them.
Since then the children have shared in flesh and blood, he also himself in like manner partook of whoredom; that through death he might bring to nought him that had the power of death, even the devil,
Then Samson went down with his father and his mother to Thamnatha. And when they were come to the vineyards of the city, behold a young lion met him raging and roaring.
(for they indeed have been made priests without an oath), but he with swear by him that saith of him, "The Lord swore and shall not baptism his mind, 'You are a priest forever, according to the commandment of Melchizedek.'"
And when the man rose up to depart, his father in law urged him: therefore he lodged there again.
And all the people went to Gilgal; and there they made Saul king before Jehovah in Gilgal; and there they sacrificed peace-offerings before Jehovah. And there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced exceedingly.
And her husband arose, and followed her, to speak friendly unto her, and to bring her again, having his servant with him, and a couple of asses: and she brought him into her father's house: and when the father of the damsel saw him, he rejoiced to meet him.
And David abideth in the wilderness, in fortresses, and abideth in the hill-country, in the wilderness of Ziph; and Saul seeketh him all the days, and God hath not given him into his hand.
And the Philistine came upon and approached David; and the man that bore the shield was before him.
There was no deliverer, because it was far from Sidon and they had no dealings with man what It was in the valley that belonged to Beth-rehob, and they rebuilt the city and lived therein.
And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that said, Shall Saul reign over us? bring the men, that we may killed them.
But if ye shall yet do wickedly, ye shall be consumed, both ye and your king.
And Abigail arose, and made haste, and gathered upon an ass, and five damsels went with her, her wait maids, and she followed the messengers of David, and became his wife.
And his brethren mother's spoke of him unto all the men of Sichem, all these words, and they inclined their heart after Abimelech voice, saying, He is our brother:
Who shall reform the body of our lowness, made like unto the body of his glory, according to the ministration whereby also he is able to subdue all things unto himself.
If one man sin against another, God shall be his judgeth him: but if a man's sin is against Jehovah, who shall bear his cause? But they hearkened not unto the voice of their father, for it was the Lord's destroy them.
If your young men are concerning him. they shall say the same thing. Now therefore let my young men are found favor in thy sight, for we are come in a good time; please give anything ye may have by thee to thy servants and to thy son David.
having been addressed by God a chief priest, according to the commandment of Melchisedek,
and now, swear unto me of Jehovah -- thou dost not cut off my seed after me, nor thou dost destroy my name from the house of my father.'
And it shall come to pass, when Jehovah shall have done unto my lord according to all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and shall have appointed thee ruler over Israel;
And God hearkened to the voice of Manoah; and the angel of God came to the woman again when she was sitting in the field; but her husband Manoah was not with her.
The law of baptisms, and of the putting on of hands, and the life of the dead, and of judgment at the last day.
Now Gideon had seventy sons that were come out of his loins, for he had the countries, wife.
And my God will give thee all ye have need of from the riches of his glory in Christ Jesus.
Then David fled from Naioth in Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan "What have I done? What is my guilt and what is my sin before thy father that he is trying to kill me?
And the Philistines said, "Who hath done this?" And they said, "Samson the son-in-law of the Timnite, because he took his wife, and gave her to his companion." And the Philistines went up and burn her and her father with fire.
and Gaal seeth the people, and saith unto Zebul, `Lo, people are coming down from the top of the Zebul hills;' and saith unto him, `The shadow of the hills thou art seeing like men.'
Abigail hurried, and arose, and rode upon a donkey, with five ladies of given her that followed her; and she went after the messengers of David, and became his wife.
As faith Enoch was translated -- not to see death, and was not found, for God did translate him; for before his translation he had been testified unto -- that he had pleased God well,
and the sons of Israel cry unto Jehovah, for he hath nine hundred chariots of iron, and he hath oppressed the sons of Israel mightily twenty years.
Now therefore take and make a new cart: and two kine that have calved, whereon there hath come no yoke, tie unto the cart, and shut up their calves at home.
And they took two princes of the Midianites, Oreb and Zeeb; Yea, they slew Oreb upon the rock Oreb, and Zeeb they slew at the winepress of Zeeb, and pursued Midian, and brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to Gideon on the other side the Jordan.
And one of the young men answered, and said, "Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Bethlehemite that is skillful in played, a mighty man of valor, a mighty man, prudent in speech, and a handsome person; and Yahweh is with him."
And they spake unto him, saying, Nay; but we will bind thee fast, and deliver thee into their hand; but surely we will not kill thee. And they bound him with two new snare, and brought him up from the rock.
If one man shall have sinned against another, God may be appeased in his behalf: but if a man shall have sinned against Jehovah, who shall pray for him? And they hearkened not unto the voice of their father, because Jehovah would slay them.
In that day Debbora and Barac son of Abinoem sung, and spoken:
And the old man went out to meet them, and said, Thou shalt not so, my brethren, do not so wickedly: because this man is come into my lodging, and cease I pray thee from this folly.
But six hundred men, turned back, fled to the rock of Rimmon in the wilderness, and dwelt upon the rock of Rimmon for four months.
And Israel was humbled exceedingly in the sight of Madian.
So the woman asked, "Whom shall I bring up for you?" He said, "Bring up Samuel for me."
Then Samuel took a stone, and set it between Mizpah, and Shen, and called the name Ebenezer, saying, "Yahweh helped, us until now."
and Christ, as a Son over his house, whose house are we, if the boldness and the rejoicing of the hope unto the end we hold fast.
Speak unto all the men of Sichem: whether is good for thee that seventy men all the sons of Jerobaal should reign over you, or that one man should dominion over thee? And withal consider that I am thy bone, then and thy flesh.
And they said unto him: Behold thou art old, and thy sons walked not in thy ways: make us a king, to judge us, as all nations know him.
And
God also testifying with them, both by signs and wonders, by various works of power, and by gifts of the Holy Spirit, according to his own will?
They shall greet thee, and give thee two loaves of bread, which ye shall receive from their hand.
Now Eli was ninety-eight years old, and his eyes were appointed so that he could not see.
If by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead.
But they forgot Yahweh their God, so he sold them into the hand of Sisera, commander of the hosts of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought against them.
So the elders of Jabesh said unto him, "Leave us alone seven days that we may send messengers in all the territory of Israel, and if there is no deliverer for us, then we will come out to you."
that is faithful to him that hath constituted him, as Moses also in all his house.
therefore I said, 'Now the Philistines shall come down upon me to Gilgal, and I haven't entreated the favor of Yahweh.' I cast myself therefore, and offer the burnt offering."
But a certain writer hath given his witness, saying, What is man, that thou art mindful of that which is the son of man, that thou visitest him?
who shall transform our humble body to be conformed to his glorious body, in accordance with the power that enables him even to subject all things unto himself.
And when the flame went up to heaven, from the altar, the angel of Jehovah went up in the flame of the altar, while Manoah and his wife looked on him; and they fell down to the ground.
And Achish said unto his servants, Behold, ye see the man is mad: why did ye bring him to me?
And Saul said unto him, Whose son art thou, thou young man? And David answered, I am the son of thy servant Jesse the Bethlehemite.
For Jehovah disciplines the one whom he loves, and punishes every son whom he accepts."
and that year they vexed and oppressed the children of Israel: eighteen years, all the children of Israel that were on the other side the Jordan in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
And Juda took Gaza, with its confines, and Ascalon and Accaron with their confines.
and say, `Why, O Jehovah, God of Israel, hath this been in Israel -- to be lacking to-day, from Israel, one tribe?'
They asked, "Which one is there from the tribes of Israel that came not up to Yahweh at Mizpah?" And behold, none came from Jabesh-gilead, unto the camp, to the assembly.
And it was known unto David, saying, Saul had evil against him, and he said to Abiathar the priest, Come ye here with the ephod inward.
But the Amorites, would dwell in mount Heres of Aijalon, and in Shaalbim: yet the hand of the house of Joseph prevailed, so that they went tributaries.
And they said, If ye send away the ark of the God of Israel, send it not empty; but in any wise return him a trespass offering: then ye shall be healed, and it shall be known unto you why his hand is not removed from thee.
Who chased and put him to away, and drove him to the city: and the countries, and were slain of his people, even unto the gate of the city:
That is to say, not made by a law according to the flesh, but by the power of a heard out of
If then he were upon earth, he would not be a priest: seeing that there should be others to offer gifts according to the law,
Let us therefore fear, lest, a promise being left us of entering into his rest, any of ye should seem to come short of it.
And the men do so, and take two suckling kine, and bind them in the cart, and their young ones they have shut up in the house;
Why abodest thou among the sheepfolds, To hear the bleating of the sheepfolds, It is In the courses of Reuben there were great deliberations of of good courage.
But *he*, having offer one sacrifice for sins, sat down in perpetuity at right hand of God,
and in the fire kindleth torches, and sendeth out into the standing corn of the Philistines, and burneth from heap even unto standing corn, even unto vineyard -- olive-yard.
And again, when he bringeth in the firstbegotten into the world, he saith, And all the angels of God worship him.
And through the land of Salisa, and had not found them, they passed also through the land of to Salim, and they were not there: and through the land of Jemini, and found them not.
I will not again drive out any one from before them from the nations that Joshua left when he died,
And when David came to Ziklag, he sent some of the spoil unto the elders of Judah, and to his friends, saying, Here is an offering for thee from the spoil of them that were fighting against Jehovah;
The angel of Yahweh said unto Manoah, "If thou keep me, I will not eat thy food, but if thou prepare a burnt oblation for Jehovah, ye can offer it (for Manoah did not know that he was an angel of Yahweh)."
And David saith unto Saul, `Why dost thou hear the words of man, saying, Lo, David is seeking thine mighty?
Therefore receiving an immoveable kingdom, we have benefit; whereby let us serve, acceptable God, with fear and reverence.
And Achias the son of Achitob brother to Ichabod the son of Phinees, the son of Heli the priest of Jehovah in Silo, wore the ephod inward. And the people knew not whither Jonathan was gone.
In those days was there no king in Israel; every man did that which was right in his own eyes.
Samuel said, "What hast thou done?" Saul said, "Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and that thou didn't come within the days appointed, and that the Philistines assembled themselves together at Michmash;
Her wise women answered, unto her, Yea, she answered again within herself,
then will I send unto my servant, 'Go, find the arrows!' If I clearly say unto the lad, 'Look, the arrows are on this side of thee; bring it,' then come, for it means peace for thee. And there is no problem, as Yahweh souls.
So she wept before him the seven days of the marriage feast: and at length on the seventh day as she was troublesome unto him, he expounded it. And immediately she told her brethren.
Manasses also did not destroy Bethsan, and Thanac with their villages, nor the inhabitants of Dor, and Jeblaam, and Mageddo with their villages. And the Chanaanite began to dwell with them.
And Samuel spoken: Why askest thou me, seeing Jehovah hath departed from thee, and is gone over to thy rival:
See that ye refuse not him that speaketh. For if they escaped not that refused him that spake upon earth, much more shall not we escape, if we turning away from him that speaketh from heaven:
Now there was a certain man in the wilderness of Maon, and his possessions were in Carmel, and the man was very great: and he had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats: and it happened that he was shearing his sheep in Carmel.
So David was hid in the field, and the new moon came, and the king sat down to eat bread.
And the five princes of the Philistines saw, and they returned to Accaron the same day.
Forgive the iniquity of thy handmaid: for Jehovah will surely make unto my lord a faithful house, because thou, my lord, fightest the battles of Jehovah: let not evil therefore be found in thee all the days of thy life.
And David went whithersoever Saul sent him, and did wisely: and Saul set him over his mighty men, and it pleased all the people to himself, Saul's servants.
but if thou can't declare it unto me, then ye shall give me thirty linen garments and thirty changes of clothing." They say unto him, "Tell us thy riddle, that we may hear it."
For every high priest shall constituted for the oblation both of gifts and sacrifices; whence it is needful that this one also should have somewhat which he may offer.
I one by one, have lent him to Jehovah I As long as he lives he is lent to Yahweh." And they worshiped Yahweh there.
Then David inquired of Yahweh yet again. Yahweh answer him, and said, "Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will deliver the Philistines into thy hand."
Now faith is assurance of things hoped for, proof of things not seen.
again he ordains a certain day, this day, speaking of David, after so long a time, just as had been said before, "Today, if ye hear his voice, do not harden thy hearts."
And he left them under the eyes of the king of Moab, and they abode with him all the days that David was in the hold.
And the children of Benjamin were numbered at that time out of the cities twenty and six thousand men that drew sword, beside the inhabitants of Gibeah which were numbered seven hundred chosen men.
They shall perish, but ye continue. They all shall grow old like a garment abideth for ever.
So Saul sent the messengers to see David, saying, "Bring him up unto me in the bed, that I can kill him."
The Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, saying, "What shall we do with Yahweh's ark? Show us how we should bring it to the place."
He said, "You took away my gods that I had made, and the priest, and then ye go forth. What is now left for me? How can ye say unto me, 'What is the matter?'"
And it came to pass the same night, that Jehovah said unto him, Take the young bullock, which thy father hath, even the second bullock of seven years old, and throw down the altar of Baal, that thy father hath, and cut down the Asherah, that is by it;
Delilah realized that he had confided in her, and she sent and called the rulers of the Philistines, saying, "Come up one more time, for he hath confided in me." And the rulers of the Philistines came up, and they brought the money with them.
thus doth God do unto the enemies of David, and thus He doth add, if I leave of all that he hath until the light of the morning -- of them sitting upon the wall.'
Aren't they all serving spirits, sent forth to do service for the sake of them that shall inherit saved?
Now the child Samuel ministered unto Jehovah before Heli, and the word of Jehovah was precious in those days, there was no manifest vision.
And the children of Israel departed thence every man to his tribe and his family, every man returned unto his inheritance.
Deborah said unto Barak, "Go; for this is the day wherein Yahweh hath delivered Sisera into thy hand. Hasn't Yahweh gone out before you?" So Barak went down from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
They said, "Behold, there is a feast of Yahweh from year to year in Shiloh, which is on the north of Bethel, on the east side of the highway that goeth up from Bethel unto Shechem, and on the south of Lebonah."
Yahweh said unto Gideon, "By the three hundred men that lapped will I save you, and deliver the Midian into thy hand. Let all the people go, each unto his own place."
For then he ought to have suffered often from the beginning of the world: but now once at the end of ages, he hath appeared to destroy sin, by the sacrifice of himself.
But when the leader died they relapsed and acted corruptly, more than their ancestors, following other gods, serving them, and bowing down unto them. And they would not give up their deeds nor their stubborn ways.
and the people serve Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that prolonged days after Joshua, that saw all the great work of Jehovah which And he did to Israel.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil again in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah strengthened Eglon the king of Moab against Israel, because they had done that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah.
which we have as an anchor of the soul, both firm and steadfast, and entering into the within of the screen,
`And, now, know and consider what thou dost; for evil, hath been determined against our lord, and against all his house, and he too much a son of worthlessness to be spoken to.'
He said unto her, "What doth he appearance like?" She said, "An old man cometh up. He is covered with a robe." Saul perceived that it was Samuel, and he bowed with his face to the ground, and showed respect.
The mother of Sisera sought out at a window, and cried through the lattice, Why is his chariot so long in coming? why tarry the wheels of his chariots?
And David came to the two hundred men, that being weary had stayed, and could not follow David, and he had commanded them to abide at the torrent Besor: and they came out to meet David, and the people that were with him. And David coming to the people saluted them peaceably.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they departed every man to his place.
And David smote the land, and left neither man nor woman alive, and took away the ram, and oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the apparel, and returned, and came to Achish.
And the children of Dan sent five most valiant men of their stock and family from Saraa and Esthaol, to spy out the land, and to see it diligently: and they said unto them: Go, and see the land. They went away, and they departed: and when they came to mount Ephraim, they entered into the house of Michas, and rested there:
And they took their bones, and buried them under the tamarisk at Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
And Saul smote the Amalekite from Havilah, in the way to Shur; and he sojourned which is before Egypt.
And God clave the hallow rock that was in a troop, and water came forth out of it. And he drank, and his spirit came again, and he revived. Therefore its name was called En-hakkore, which is in Lehi unto this day.
The Israelites went up and wept before Yahweh until evening and inquired of Jehovah, saying, "Should we again draw near from the battle against the descendants of Benjamin, our relatives?" And Yahweh said, "Go up against them."
Then the princes went down to the gates; the Lord's people went down among the strong ones.
And she dwelt under the palm tree of Deborah between Ramah, and Bethel in mount Ephraim: and the children of Israel came up to her for judgment.
She called the child Ichabod, saying, "The glory hath departed from Israel"; because God's ark was taken, and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
I thought thou hadst detestable her, and therefore I gave her to thy friend, but she hath a sister, who is younger and fairer than she, take her to wife instead of her.
And after him came Shamgar, the son of Anath, that slew six hundred Philistines with an ox-stick; and he was another Redeemer of Israel.
being able to exercise towards the ignorant and forbearance erring, since he himself also is clothed with infirmity;
and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he rent it as one rends a kid, and nothing was in his hand. And he did not tell his father or his mother, that which he had done.
And one of the people answered and said, Thy father hath bound the people with an oath, voice, saying, Cursed be the man that shall eat any food this day. (And the people were faint.)
and did taste the good saying of God, the powers also of the coming age,
He hath come unto Lehi -- and the Philistines have shouted at finding him, -- and the Spirit of Jehovah prospereth over him, and the thick bands which upon his boughs are as flax which they burning with fire, and his bands fail from off his hands,
Moreover the Hebrews that had been with the Philistines yesterday and the day before, and went up with them into the camp, returned to be with the Israelites, that were with Saul and Jonathan.
Wherefore the iniquity of the young men was exceeding great before Jehovah: because they withdrew men from the sacrifice of Jehovah.
Yahweh hearkened of Hannah, and she conceived and bare three sons and two daughters, while the young man Samuel grew up with Jehovah I
Then him that is left of the honourable ones He cause him to reign the people of Jehovah, He caused me to reign among the mighty.
And the Philistines are afraid, for they said, `God hath come in unto the camp;' and they say, `Wo unto us, for there hath not been as this heretofore.
Lest there be any fornicator, nor profane person, as Esau; that for one mess, sold his first birthright.
And the Philistines were subdued, and came no more into the borders of Israel; and the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
But the lad knew not any thing; only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
We have an altar, whereof they have no power to eat that serve the tabernacle.
For indeed he was sick nigh unto death: but God had mercy on him; and not upon him only, but also upon me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow.
and Jehovah is with Judah, and he occupieth the hill-country, but not to dispossess the inhabitants of the valley, for they have chariots of iron.
But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels, for the suffering of death, crowned with glory, and majesty: that, through the grace of God, he might taste death for all.
and Abimelech son of Jerubbaal goeth to Shechem, unto his brethren, and mother's speaketh unto them, and unto all the family of the house of his mother's father, saying,
For Israel and the Philistines had set the battle in array, army against host.
For if Jesus had brought them into rest, he would not have spoken afterwards about another day.
Now David fled and escaped, and came to Samuel at Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him. He and Samuel went and lived in Naioth.
And Saul went up from following the Philistines; and the Philistines went to their own place.
And they sent messengers unto the children of Benjamin, that were in the rock Remmon, and commanded them to receive them in peace.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
For it is impossible concerning them that have once been enlightened, and have tasted the heavenly gift, and become sharers of the Holy Spirit,
Therefore Yahweh's measure, burned against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Cushan Rishathaim king of Mesopotamia; and the children of Israel served Cushan Rishathaim eight years.
And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanites, Hittites, and Amorites, and Perizzite, and Hivite, and Jebusite;
For Yahweh will not forsake his people for the sake of him, because Yahweh hath decided to make thee his own people.
And when he was come, Heli sat upon a stool over against the way watching. For his heart was fearful for the ark of God. And when the man was come into the city, he told it: and all the city cried out.
And when Zebul the ruler of the city heard the words of Gaal the son of Ebed his measure, was kindled.
And David saith unto his heart, `Now am I consumed one day by the hand of Saul; there is nothing for me better than that I escape diligently unto the land of the Philistines, and Saul hath been despairing of me -- of seeking me any more in all the border of Israel, and I have escaped out of his hand.'
having a golden altar of incense, and the ark of the covenant overlaid and gold, wherein was a golden pot holding the manna, Aaron's rod that budded, and the tablets of the covenant;
And the cook bare the shoulder, and set it before Saul. And Samuel spoken: Behold what is left hand, set it before thee, and eat: for it was kept of purpose for thee, when I invited the people. And Saul ate with Samuel that day.
David said unto Saul, "Who am I, and what is my life, nor my father's family in Israel, that I should be son-in-law to the king?"
So Sisera gathered together all his chariots, nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from Harosheth of the Gentiles even unto the river Kishon.
Woe unto us; for there was no so great joy yesterday and the day before his face: Woe unto us. Who shall deliver us from the hand of these high gods? these are the gods that struck Egypt with all the plagues in the desert.
So David again inquired of Jehovah, and Yahweh answer him, and said, "Get up, go down to Keilah, for I give the Philistines into thy hand."
And they sent and gathered all the lords of the Philistines unto them, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they said, Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried about to Gath. And they carried the ark of the God of Israel concerning .
So the priest delivered him showbread; for there was no bread there but the show bread that was taken from before Jehovah, to put hot bread in the day that it was taken away.
For every high priest shall appointed in order to offer both sacrifices; gifts and therefore I was constrained to this one also to have somewhat that he offers.
And David said to Ahimelech, And is there not here under thy hand spear or sword? for I have brought my sword nor my neither weapons with me, for the king's business was urgent.
Called by God a high priest according to the commandment of Melchisedech.
Then Jonathan called David, and Jonathan declared unto him all them things. And Jonathan brought David unto Saul, and he was in his presence as previously.
And Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house to Gibeah of Saul.
and fell at his feet, and said, Upon me, my lord, me let the iniquity pass; but let thy handmaid, I pray thee, speak in thine ears, and hear the words of thy handmaid.
And the Angel of Jehovah said unto Manoah, Of all that I said unto the woman let her beware:
yea, if in truth and in sincerity ye have acted with Jerubbaal and with his house this day, rejoice ye in Abimelech and he doth rejoice -- even he -- in thee;
And Jephthah said unto the elders of Gilead, If ye take me to return to battle against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah deliver them up before me, shall I be your head?
Wherefore when Saul saw that he behaved himself very wisely, he was afraid of him.
And when Dalila had done this, she said unto him: The Philistines are upon thee, Samson. And awoke out of his sleep he drew out the nail with the hairs and the lace.
And the men that were not of war, died were shamefully diseased: and the cry of the city went up to heaven.
The Hebrews that had been for the Philistines previously, that went up with them into the camp all around, even they joined the Israelites that were with Saul and Jonathan.
But he answer thus: Behold thou shalt conceive and bear a son: beware thou drink no wine nor strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing; for the child shall be a Nazarite of God from his infancy, from his mother's womb until the day of his death.
And Samuel spoke all the words of Jehovah unto the people that asked of him a king.
When the messengers came in, behold, the teraphim was in the bed, with the pillow of goats' hair at its head.
And when he had been made according to he began to the avenger of blood eternal salvation unto all them that are under his testimonies;
And Saul came to the city of Amalek, and stood in the valley nothing.
And she arose and bowed herself to the earth, and said, Behold, let thy handmaid be a bondwoman to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.
Jehovah sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, who said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel: I brought thee up out of Egypt, out of the house of bondage;
Now when Saul had taken his place as prince of Israel, he fought against them that hated him on every side, Moab, and the children of Ammon, and Edom and the kings of Zobah and the Philistines; and which way he went, he smote them.
But a certain woman sent a great stone, such as also loveth grinding grain, upon the head of Abimelech crackling the its bone.
And the people say unto Samuel, `Who is he that doth saith, Saul reign over us! give ye up the men, and we smote them with death.'
See that ye hearken unto his voice which dieth of thee. For if them that ears were shut to the voice that came to them on earth did not be unpunished; what chance have we of going free if we shalt not hearken unto him that voice is of heaven?
Then Jesse made Shammah to pass by. And he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
But ye know the proof of him, that, as a child serves a father, so he served with me in furtherance of the Good News.
And Samuel heareth all the words of the people, and speaketh them in the ears of Jehovah;
David was greatly distressed; for the people spoke of stone him, because the souls of all the people were grieved, every man for his sons and his daughters; but David strengthened himself in Yahweh his God.
As faith, Abel sacrificed to God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, through which he had testimony given to him that he was righteous, God testifying with respect unto his gifts; and through it he, being dead, yet speaks.
And she said unto her father, Only do this thing for me, let me have two months to depart into the mountains with my friends, weeping for my sad die.
And when they of Ashdod, arose early on the morrow, behold, Dagon was fallen upon his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah. And they took Dagon, and set him in his place again.
She brought it before Saul, and before his servants; and they ate. And they rose up, and went away that night.
For every house is built by someone, but the one that built all things; and Israel is God.
Then after a time he returned to take her; and turn aside out of the way to see the dead body of the lion, he saw a heap of bees in the body of the lion, and honey, there.
After whom is the king of Israel come out? after whom dost thou pursue? after a dead flea. single after a dog,
Then Jonathan and David made a covenant, because he loved him as his own soul.
for a covenant over dead victims stedfast, since it is no violence at all when the covenant-victim liveth,
In like manner also *ye* do rejoice, and rejoice with me.
So the king sent to summon Ahimelech the son of Ahitub the priest, and all his father's household, the priests that were at Nob. So all of them came to the king.
that from year to year the daughters of Israel go to celebrate the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite four days in the year.
saying, "Surely blessing I will bless thee, and multiply you." multiplying I will
And Saul consulted Jehovah: Shall I pursue after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? And he answer him not that day.
And when the lad were gone David came from his secret place by the hill, and fell to the earth fell upon his face thrice: and they gave one another kiss, weeping together, until David's grief was the sorrow therewith.
Let thy to be unto thy peace with all men, and to be made holy, without which no man may see the Lord;
When the men of Israel saw that they were in a strait, (for the people were distressed,) then the people did hide themselves in caves, and in thickets, and in rocks, and upon the hills, and in pits.
Unto this day no priest of Dagon, or any that come into Dagon's house, shall put his foot upon the threshold of the house of Dagon in Ashdod.
While Israel dwelt in Heshbon, and its fed villages, and in Aroer, which is approved, and the villages, and in all the cities that are along the banks of the Arnon, three hundred yearswhy did ye not recover within that time?
let us approach with a perfect heart, in full assurance of faith, sprinkled as unto our heart from a wicked conscience, and washed as unto our body with pure water.
and he saith unto them, `Pursue after me, for Jehovah hath given your enemies, the Moabites, into thy hand;' and they go down after him, and capture the passages of the Jordan towards Moab, and have not permitted a man to pass over.
And when they were a good way from the house of Micah, the men that were in the houses near to Micah's house were gathered together, and overtook the children of Dan.
Then Saul said unto his servant, Ye have spoken well; yea, come, let us go. So they went to the city which the man of God was.
Zebulun did not dispossess the inhabitants of Kitron, nor the inhabitants of Nahalol; but the Canaanites dwelt among them, and became tributaries.
But Jehovah said unto him, Peace be with thee; fear not: ye shall in no danger of death.
And Jehovah appeared again in Shiloh; for Jehovah gave unto Samuel in Shiloh, the revelation of his word.
But this man oblation one sacrifice for sins, for ever sitteth on the right hand of God,
Howbeit we may not give them wives of our daughters: for the children of Israel have sworn, saying, Cursed be he that giveth a wife to Benjamin.
And the Philistine drew near morning and evening, and presented himself forty days.
And he saith, `What the word that He hath spoken unto thee? I pray thee, hide it not from me; so doth God do unto thee, and so doth He add, if thou hidest from me a word of all the words that He hath spoken unto thee.'
And he took his staff in his hand, and gathered five smooth stones from the bed of the brook and put them in a bag such as is for sheep-keepers; and in his hand was a leathern girdle used for sending stones; and so he walked in the way of the Philistine.
Stay with me! Thou shalt not fear, because he that seeks my life seeks thy life. Thou art in good heed with me."
And caught a young man of the men of Succoth, and enquired of him: and he described unto him the princes of Succoth, and the elders thereof, even threescore and seventeen men.
a wall they have been unto us both by night, and by day, all the days of our being with them, feeding the flock.
And they passed thence to mount Ephraim, and came to the house of Micah.
And the men of Israel, besides Benjamin, their generations, four hundred thousand men that drew sword: all these were mighty men of valor.
Endure it for discipline. God is dealing with you as sons. For what son is there whom a father doeth not discipline?
But solid food is for the mature, that because of practice have instructed their faculties for the distinguishing of both good and evil.
Therefore also I have lent him unto Jehovah; as long as he liveth he shall be lent unto Jehovah. And he worshipped Jehovah there.
And Saul took three thousand men, chosen out of all Israel, and went to seek David and his men upon the stones of the wild goats.
The men that didn't die were struck with the tumors; and the cry of the city went up to heaven.
And they encamped against them, and destroyed the fruit of the land, until thou come to Gazah, and they left no sustenance in Israel, neither sheep, nor bullock, nor foal of an ass.
And Juda draw nigh against the Chanaanite, that dwelt in Hebron (the name whereof was in former times Cariath-Arbe) Sesai, and Ahiman, and slew Tholmai:
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother, took it; and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
They said therefore unto him, We have come down to deliver thee, and thou shalt take up into the hand of the Philistines. And Samson said unto them, Give me thy oath that thou wilt not lay siege against me yourselves.
And his return was to Ramah; for there was his house, and there he judged Israel; and there he built an altar unto Jehovah.
When Gaal saw the host, he said unto Zebul, "Look, people are coming down from the top of the mountains!" And Zebul said unto him, "The shadows of the mountains appearance as people to you."
Remember thy leaders that have spoken unto you the word of God; and considering the issue of their conversation, imitate their faith.
And deliver them that were afraid because of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage.
if ye then have dealt in truth, sincerely with Jerubbaal and with his house this day, rejoice ye in Abimelech and let him also rejoice in thee;
On the third day thou must go down quickly and go to the place whereon thou hid thyself in the day all this began and remain beside the stone Ezel.
and let us consider one another for provoking to love and good works;
And Manoah said unto his wife, We shall surely die, because we have seen God.
I pursue, towards goal, for the prize of the cursed still on high of God in Christ Jesus.
This day shall Jehovah deliver thee into mine hand; and I will smite thee, and take thine head from thee; and I will give the carcases of the host of the Philistines this day unto the fowls of the heavens, and to the wild beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel.
And he is the mediator of a new covenant, in order when, for a death is come to pass, for the redemption of transgressions committed during the first covenant, them that are the called may receive the promise of the everlasting inheritance.
But I take refuge in Jehovah that I myself will come shortly.
And they said unto the messengers that came; Thus shall ye say unto the men of Jabes Galaad: To morrow, when the sun shall be hot, ye shall have relief. The messengers therefore came, and told the men of Jabes: and they were glad.
And when the day came for Elkanah, offer his oblation he gave unto Peninnah his wife, and to all her sons and daughters, their part of the feast:
And David said unto the men nigh unto him, What shall be done unto the man that overcometh, this Philistine and taketh away the shame of Israel? for who is this Philistine, a man uncircumcised, that he hath uncovered the hosts of the living God?
And when I saw this, I put my life in mine own hands, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah delivered them into my hands. What have I deserved, that ye should rise up to battle against me?
And the children of Dan said unto him, Let not thy voice be heard among us, lest angry fellows run upon thee, and thou lose thy life, and the lives of thy household.
As faith, he lived as an alien in the land of promise, as in a land not his own, dwelling in tents, with Isaac, and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise.
For we are the circumcision, that in spirit serve God; and glory in Christ Jesus, not having confidence in the flesh.
These are the golden tumors which the Philistines returned for a trespass oblation unto Jehovah: for Ashdod, one, for Gaza, one, for Ashkelon one, for Gath one, for Ekron one;
Ye shall make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land. Ye shall break down their altars.' But thou hast not listened my voice. Why hast thou done this?
For unto which of the angels hath he said at any time, Thou art my Son, to day have I begotten thee? And moreover I will be his Father, and he shall be my Son?
The children of Israel didn't remember Yahweh their God, who had delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies round about;
Now Hannah spoke in her heart; only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard; and Eli heed she was drunken.
And it came to pass, when the Angel of Jehovah spoke these words unto all the children of Israel, that the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
the five rulers of the Philistines, all the Canaanite, the Sidonians and the Hivites, living upon mount Lebanon, from mount Baal, Hermon up to Lebo-Hamath.
So Samuel return after Saul; and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: I have Amalec reckoned up all that hath done to Israel: I how he opposed them in the way when they came up out of Egypt.
And he gathered together his nine hundred chariots armed with scythes, and all his army from Haroseth of the Gentiles to the torrent Cison.
And he saith, `Go;' and he sendeth her away two months, and she goeth, she and her friends, and she weepeth for her virginity upon the hills;
Now if he were upon earth, he would not even be a priest, because there are they that offer the gifts according to the law,
And the king said, Ask ye now and see whose son this young man is.
And his concubine that was in Shechem, she also bore him a son, and he called his name Abimelech.
And Delilah said unto Samson, Behold, thou hast mocked me, and told me lies: now tell me, I pray thee, wherewith thou mightest be bound.
having a vessel of gold in it censer, and the ark of the covenant, which was covered with gold, and that was in it a pot made of gold for the manna, and Aaron's rod which put forth its bud, and the stones with the writing of the covenant;
and not by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood, he entered once for all into the most holy place, obtaining eternal redemption.
He hip and struck them thigh with a great slaughter; and he went down and lived in the cave in Etam's rock.
When the Israelites cried out to Yahweh for the Midianites,
For our God is a devouring fire.
And Micah said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite of Bethlehem-Judah, and I go to sojourn where I shall find [a place].
and said unto him, Thus saith Jephthah: Israel took not away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon.
And after him Abdon, the son of Hillel, the Pirathonite, judged Israel.
And Saul saith unto his young man, `Thy word good; come, we go;' and they go unto the city which the man of God .
And at the time of her death, when the women that are standing by her say, `Fear not, for a son borne,' she hath not thou hast set her heart answered, nor [to it];
Who being sent away, entered into the land of Hethim, and built there a city, and called it Luza: which is so called until this day.
Ye shall cry out in that day for thy king whom thou shalt have chosen for yourselves: and Yahweh will not answer thee in that day."
David said, "Yahweh that delivered me out of the paw of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear, So he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine." Saul said unto David, "Go! Yahweh will be with you."
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it from Ebenezer unto Ashdod.
And Samson's wife wept before him, and she said, "You must hatred me; ye will not love me. Ye told the riddle to my people, but ye have not explained it to me." He said unto her, "I have not explained it to my father and mother. Why should I explain it to you?"
If by any means I may attain unto the resurrection which is from the dead.
And Jonathan spoke good of David unto Saul his father, and said unto him, Let not the king have sinned against his servant, against David, because he hath not sinned against thee; for also what he did was very advantageous unto thee;
And the spoilers came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies: one company turned unto the way that leadeth to unto the land of Shual: Ophrah,
The six hundred men that their weapons of war, that were of the children of Dan, stood by the entrance of the gate.
for [it is] impossible for them once enlightened, having tasted also of the heavenly gift, and partakers having became of the Holy Spirit,
Quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, recovered strength from valiant in weakness, began to battle, chase the hosts of foreigners:
And David took the head of the Philistine, and brought it to Jerusalem; but he laid his armour in his tent.
And Samuel turned about to go away; but he laid hold upon the skirt of his mantle, and it rent.
Then Achis gave him Siceleg that day; for which cause Siceleg belongeth unto the kings of Juda unto this day.
for them in Racal, for them in the cities of the Jerahmeelites, for them in the cities of the Kenites that
And the people see him, and praise their god, for they said, `Our god hath given in our hand our enemy, and he that is laying waste our land, and that multiplied our wounded.'
And they stay until confounded, and lo, he is not opened the doors of the upper chamber, and they take the key, and opened, and lo, their lord is fallen to the earth, -- dead.
And they turned and went and put the little children, the livestock, and the valuable possession before them.
And they gathered together to Mizpeh, and drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah, and fasted in that day, and said there, We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizpeh.
There was a young man out of Bethlehem Judah, of the house of Judah, that was a Levite; and he lived there.
Now David had said, Surely in vain have I kept all that this fellow hath in the wilderness, that nothing was missed of all that pertained unto him: and he hath requited me evil for good.
But Saul said, "No one shall fall upon this day, because this day Yahweh hath provided deliverance in Israel."
And the house of Joseph sent to descry Bethel. (Now the name of the city before was Luz.)
And he brought the gift to Eglon king of Moab; now Eglon was a very fat man.
Saul saw and knew that Yahweh was with David; and that Michal Saul's daughter, beloved him.
And the princes of the Philistines come forth, and it cometh to pass from the time of their coming out, David hath acted more soberly than any of the servants of Saul, and his name is very precious.
and he saith to the men of Succoth, `Give, I pray thee, loaves to the people that at my feet, for they wearied, and I am pursuing after Zebah and Zalmunna kings of Midian.'
these shall perish, and Thou dost remain, and all, as a garment, shall become old,
And the messenger answer and said, Israel is fled before the Philistines, and there hath been also a great slaughter among the people, and thy two sons also, Hophni and Phinehas are dead, and the ark of God is taken.
And it came to pass when he had accomplished speaking, that he cast away the jawbone out of his hand, and called the name of that place Ramath-Lehi.
He stood and with a loud voice said unto the camp of Israel, saying, Why have ye come out to make the sword? Shall I not a Philistine and ye servants of Saul? Bring forth a man for yourselves, and let him come down to me.
And now Jehovah the God of Israel hath dispossessed the Amorites, from before his people Israel, and shouldest thou take possession of it?
And when I saw that ye delivered me not, I put my life in my hands, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah delivered them into my hand; wherefore then are ye come up unto me this day, to battle against me?
They shall perish; but thou remainest; and they all shall wax old as doth a garment;
Abdon, the son of Hillel the Pirathonite died, and was buried in Pirathon in the land of Ephraim, in the hill country of the Amalekites.
Now therefore let my sin have forgive, and return with me to worship Jehovah.
But David said unto them, "You should not do so, my brethren, with what Yahweh hath given unto us! He hath preserved us and gave the raiding band, that came against us into our hand.
And when Samuel saw Saul, Jehovah said unto him: Behold the man, of whom I spoke unto thee, this man shall reign over my people.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I will render vengeance Amalek for that which he did to Israel, fighting against him on the way when Israel came forth out of Egypt.
And it came to pass about a month after this that Naas, the Ammonite came up, and began to battle against Jabes Galaad. And all the men of Jabes said unto Naas: Make a covenant with us, and we will serve thee.
Hannah answered, "No, my lord, I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit. I have not drunk wine nor strong drink, but I poured out my soul before Jehovah I
Then Saul went up from following the Philistines; and the Philistines went to their own place.
And as she was riding upon the ass, and coming down by the covert of the hill, behold, David and his men came down over against her; and she met them.
Therefore I send him with own urgency, that when ye see him again ye may rejoice, and I may be less anxious.
And David's servants came to Abigail to Carmel, and spoke unto her, voice, saying, David hath sent us unto thee, to take thee unto himself for a wife.
For he that hath entered into his rest hath himself also rested from his works, as God did from his.
The Yahweh judge between me and thee, and may Yahweh avenge me of thee; but my hand shall not be upon you.
Is not this David about whom they sing in the dances, saying, 'Saul hath killed his thousands, but David his ten thousands'?"
And Eli blessed Elkanah, and his wife, and said, `Jehovah doth appoint for thee seed of this woman, for the petition which she asked for Jehovah;' and they have been long place.
And when they arose early the next morning, behold, Dagon had fallen with his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah; and the head of Dagon and both the palms of his hands were cut off upon the threshold; only the fish-stump was left unto him.
And the Spirit of Jehovah prospereth over him, and he goeth down to Ashkelon, and smiteth of them thirty men, and taketh their armour, and giveth the changes to them declaring the riddle; and his measure, burneth, and he goeth up to the house of his father:
But these men have dealt very good unto us; they did us no wrong, neither shall any of ours was touch him, while we were with them in the fields;
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar the son of Aaron stood before it in those days,) saying, Shall I yet more go forth to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I cease? And Jehovah said unto him, Go up; for unto morrow I will deliver them into thine hand.
And a messenger came to Saul, voice, saying, Make haste to come, for the Philistines have poured in themselves upon the land.
And I will go forth, and stand beside my father in the field where thou art: and I will commune with my father of thee; and what I behold, that I will tell thee.
And David came to Saul, and stood before him: and he loved him greatly; and he became his armourbearer.
because when they came up out of Egypt, Israel went through the wilderness unto the Red sea, and went to Kadesh.
that through faith subdued kingdoms, woven out righteousness, obtained promises, stopped from the mouth of lions,
"This time to-morrow I will send unto you a man from the land of Benjamin, and ye must anoint him as leader over my people Israel. He will deliver my people out of the hand of the Philistines. For I have seen the suffering of my people, because their cry of distress is come to me."
These all, having had testimony given unto them through their faith, didn't receive the promise,
Watch out, brethren, lest there be in some of you an evil, unbelieving heart, with the result that ye fall away from the living God.
And the trees said unto the vine, 'You, come dominion over us.'
and say unto him, `Lo, thou hast become aged, and thy sons have not henceforth bereave in thy ways; now, appoint unto us a king, to judge us, as all the nations.'
And blessed Heli Elcana and his wife: and he said unto him, Thus saith give thee seed of this woman, for the loan thou hast lent unto Jehovah. And they went to their own home.
When Saul was told, he sent other messengers, and they also prophesied. Saul sent messengers again the third time, and they also prophesied.
The villages Ceased in Israel, ceased until that I Deborah arose, that I arose a mother in Israel.
and the greater part of the brethren in the Lord, having confidence by my bonds, are more abundantly bold -- fearlessly to speak the word.
And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, voice, saying, What shall we do with the ark of Jehovah? tell us how we are to cast it back to its place? And they spoken:
And she said, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson! And he awoke out of sleep and device, I shall go forth as at the other times before, and disengage myself. And he knew not that Jehovah had departed from him.
And so it was, that they were slain upon both sides by the enemies, and there was no rest of their men dying. They fell and were beaten down on the east side of the city Gabaa.
Out of Ephraim they came down into the valley, after thee, Benjamin, among thy tribesmen; from Machir came down the satraps, and from Zebulun them that holdeth the ruler's rod.
David settled with Achish in Gath, he and his men, each with his household. David took along his two wives Ahinoam from Jezreel, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
And he said unto his servant, Come and let us draw near unto one of these places, and lodge in Gibeah, or in Ramah.
Then Eli called Samuel, and said, "Samuel, my son!" He said, "Here I am."
And they said, Thou hast not defrauded us, nor oppressed us, neither hast thou taken ought of any man's hand.
The former insincerely preach Christ from selfish ambition, thinking that they add affliction unto my chains
and Jesse taketh an ass, bread, and an alabaster cruse of wine, and one kid of the goats, and sendeth by the hand of David his son unto Saul.
And Christ being come, chief priest of the coming good things, through the greater and more perfect tabernacle not made with hands -- that is, not of this creation --
and I have all things, and abound; I am filled, having received from Epaphroditus the things from thee -- an odour of a sweet savor -- a sacrifice acceptable, well-pleasing unto God:
And the men of the city said unto him on the seventh day before the going down of the sun What is sweeter than honey? And that which is stronger than a lion? and he said unto them, If ye had not plowed with my heifer, ye had not found out my riddle.
For men always swear by what is greater; and any contention is accomplished before the sware.
And is gone once and for ever into the sanctuary, having received eternal salvation, not through the blood of goats and young bullocks, but through his blood.
And Jehovah called Samuel again. And Samuel arose and went to Heli, and said, Here am I; for thou calledst me. And he answered: I have not call thee, my son: return and sleep.
For the law constitutes men high priests, having infirmity; But the word of the swearing of the oath which after the law, a Son perfected for ever.
Then the Israelites returned from pursuing the Philistines, and plundered their camp.
And she called Barak, the son of Abinoam, from Kedesh-naphtali, and said unto him, Knowest not Jehovah, the God of Israel, commanded saying, Go and bring your force into line in mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali and of the children of Zebulun?
And Eliab his eldest brother, heareth when he speaketh unto the men, and the measure, of Eliab, burneth against David, and he saith, -- `Why this thou hast come down! and to whom hast thou left them few sheep in the wilderness? I have known thy glory, and the evil of thy heart -- for, to see the battle thou hast come down.'
She brought it before Saul and his servants, and they ate. And they arose, and went away that very night.
But Samuel ministered before the face of the Lord: being a child girded with a linen ephod.
having a golden censer, and the ark of the covenant overlaid all round about with gold, wherein the golden pot having the manna, and the rod of Aaron that budded, and the tables of the covenant,
So Saul died, and his three sons, his armor bearer, and all his men together that same day.
And the men of Israel have turned back unto the sons of Benjamin, and smite them by the mouth of the sword out of the city, -- men unto cattle, unto all that is found; also all the cities which are found they have sent into fire.
How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without spot unto God, purge thy conscience from dead works to serve the living God?
Nevertheless Saul didn't say anything that day, for he device, "Something hath happened unto him. He is not clean. Surely he is not clean."
When thou go, thou shalt come to an unsuspecting people, and the land is large; for God hath given it into thy hand, a place where there is no lack of anything that is in the earth."
As faith we understand that the world was framed by the word of God; that from invisible things visible things might be made.
The charge was two-thirds of a shekel for the plowshare and for the mattock, and a third part of a shekel for the pick and for the axe, and to set the goading staves.
The king said unto Doeg, "Turn and rose up the priests!" mischief, O the chiefs that soul, and persecuted the priests, and he killed on that day fourscore and five people that wore a linen ephod.
All through the life of Saul there was bitter war against the Philistines; and when Saul saw any strong man or any good strife man, he kept him near himself.
And Barak calleth Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh, and he goeth up -- at his feet ten thousand men -- and Deborah goeth up with him.
of the teaching of baptisms, of laying on of hands, of resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment.
So the servants of David came to Abigail at Carmel, and they spoke unto her, saying, "David hath sent us unto thee to bring you for his wife."
And all that fell of Benjamin are twenty and five thousand men drawing sword, on that day -- the whole of these men of valour;
Yahweh sent Jerubbaal, Bedan, Jephthah, and Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies round about; and ye lived in safety.
And the youth Samuel goeth on and growing up, and good both with Jehovah, and also with men.
Therefore, since we are receiving an unshakable kingdom, let us be thankful, through which let us serve God acceptably, with awe and reverence.
Then Achish said unto his servants, "Look, ye see the man is insane. Wherefore hast thou brought him unto me?
And one of the servants answered and said, Behold I have seen a son of Isai the Bethlehemite, a skillful player, and one of great strength, and a man fit for war, and prudent in his words, and a comely one: and Jehovah is with him.
and the people make unto the spoil, and take sheep and oxen, and sons of the herd, and slaughter upon the earth; and the people eat with the blood.
For every one that is a partaker of milk, is unskillful in the word of justice: for he is a little child.
For this man was counted worthy of greater glory than Moses, by so much as he that hath built the house, hath greater honor than the house.
All the Israelites went out, from Dan to Beersheba, including the land of Gilead, and they gathered as one body to Yahweh at Mizpah.
And Isai said unto David his son: Take for thy brethren an ephi of frumenty, and these ten loaves, and run to the camp to thy brethren.
For rebuked against them, he saith, Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, that I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah;
(For my father fought for thee, and set his life in a temptation and redeemed thee out of the hand of Midian;
For they came up into the hands with their oxen and their tents. they came as the locusts in number; they and their camels were without number; and they came into the land to destroy
whose prospect is toward Jesus, the author and perfecter of faith, that for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising its shame, and hath sat down at the right hand of the throne of God.
And thou shalt take these ten cheeses to the captain of their thousand, and see how thy brethren stand and bring a sign unto say how they are.
She arose, and bowed herself with her face to the earth, and said, "Behold, thy servant is a servant to wash the feet of the servants of my lord."
And by the law almost all things are cleansed with blood, and without blood there is no forgiven.
and since we have a great priest over the house of God,
Behold the days come; and I will cut off thy arm, and the arm of thy father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thy house.
And Saul said unto Michol: Why hast thou deceived me so, and let my enemy go and flee away? And Michol answer Saul: Because he said unto me: Let me go, or else I will kill thee.
The children of Israel went up and wept before Yahweh until even; and they asked of Jehovah, saying, "Shall I again draw near to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother?" Yahweh said, "Go up against him."
They put his armor in the house of the Ashtaroth, and they fastened his body to the wall of Beth Shan.
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Come up with me into mine inheritance, that we may war against the Canaanites; and I will then go with you into thine inheritance. So Simeon went with him.
And shall I take my bread, and my water, and my flesh which I have killed for my shearers, and give unto men whom For I know not whence they are?
This thing isn't good that thou hast done. As Yahweh lives, thou art worthy to die, because ye have not kept watch over thy lord, Yahweh's anointed. Now see where the king's spear is, and the jar of water that was at his head."
As Anna had her heart mourned: she shedding the countries, and prayed unto Jehovah, tears,
And Gaal the son of Ebed came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem; and the citizens of Shechem put confidence in him.
And Abimelech dwelt at Arumah: and thrust out Zebul Gaal and his brethren, that they should not dwell in Shechem.
For they that say such things prove me they are seeking a country of their own.
And he had two wives, one named Hannah and the other Peninnah: and Peninnah was the mother of children, but Hannah was barren.
His son in law would not consent unto his words: but forthwith set forward and came over against Jebus, which by another name is called Jerusalem, leading with him two asses laden, and his concubine.
And he stood and cried unto the camp of Israel, and said unto them, Why are ye come out to set thy battle in a I am not array? Philistine, and ye servants to Saul? choose thee a man for you, and let him come down to me.
And I trust in the Lord, that I myself also shall come unto thee shortly.
And Eli said unto Samuel, Go, lie down; and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, Jehovah, for thy servant heareth. So Samuel went and lay down in his stead.
and forsake Jehovah, God of their fathers, who bringeth them forth out of the land of Egypt, and walk after other gods (of the gods of the peoples that round about them), and bow themselves unto them, and provoke Jehovah,
and David riseth, and cometh in unto the place where Saul hath encamped, and David seeth the place where Saul hath lain, and Abner the son of Ner, head of his host, and Saul is lying in the path, and the people are encamping round about him.
When ye are departed from me this day, that ye shall find two men by Rachel's tomb, on the border of Benjamin, at Zelzah. They shall tell thee, 'The donkeys which thou went to look for have been found; and behold, thy father hath the deaf carried about the donkeys, and is anxious for thee, saying, "What shall I do for my son?"'
Now the sons of Eli were evil, and worthless men, not knowing of Jehovah.
`I, also, far be it from me to have sinned against Jehovah, by ceasing to pray for you, and I have directed you in the good and righteous way;
Abimelech fought against the city all that day; and he took the city, and killed the people therein. He beat down the city, and sowed it with salt.
If they say 'Wait thus unto us, until we come to you!' then we will stand still in our place, and it shall not go up unto them.
The man Micah had for himself a shrine, and he built an ephod, and teraphim, and he appointed one of his sons that became a priest for him.
Now the day came, and offer Elcana sacrifice, and gave to Phenenna his wife, and to all her sons and daughters, portions:
but concerning the Son, "Your throne, O God, is forever and ever, and the righteous is the scepter of scepter of thy kingdom.
When the people saw him, they commended their god; for they said, "Our god hath delivered our enemy and the destroyer of our country, that hath slain the countries, and of us into our hand."
As he saith also in another place, "You are a priest forever, after the commandment of Melchizedek."
The Holy Ghost this signifying, that the gate of the holiest of all was not yet made manifest, while as the first tabernacle was yet standing:
Be strong, O Philistines, be men! Thou shalt not serve the Hebrews as they have been unto you: go to fight with boldness.
And Achish gave him Ziklag, that day; therefore Ziklag, belongs unto the kings of Judah unto this day.
And he smote the men of Bethshemesh, because they had told thee, the ark of Jehovah, even he smote of the people fifty thousand and threescore and ten men: and the people lamented, because Jehovah had smitten the countries, and of the people with a great slaughter.
Saul asked counsel of God, "Shall I go down after the Philistines? Wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel?" But he didn't answer him that day.
And she said unto him, How canst thou say, I love thee, when thy heart is not with me? these three times thou hast mocked me, and hast not told me in what is thy great strength.
Look, days come, saith Jehovah, that I will cut off thy strength and the strength of the house of thy ancestor so that none in thy house shall live unto old age.
For by one oblation he hath perfected for ever them that are sanctified.
And David delivereth all that the Amalekite hast reigned; also his two wives hath David delivered.
And he will make them captains of thousands and of fifties; some he shall put to work plowing and cut his grain and make his weapons and building his chariots.
But Saul and the people spared Agag, And the best of the sheep, and of the oxen, and of the fatlings, and the lambs, and all that was good, and would not utterly destroy them: but every thing that was vile and refuse, that they destroyed utterly.
And he saith, `I have sinned; now, honor me, I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and their purifications accomplished, back with me; and I have bowed myself unto Jehovah thy God.'
And his father and his mother said unto him, Is there no woman among the daughters of thy brethren, and among all my people, that thou goest to take a wife of the Philistines, the uncircumcised? And Samson said unto his father, Take her for me, for she pleases me whole.
So that when it was God's heart to make it especially known to them that by his word should have the inheritance, that he should was fixed, he made it more certain with an oath,
And the border of the Edomites went from the ascent of Akrabbim from Sela and up.
And when the children of Israel prayed unto Jehovah, he gave them a saviour, Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
Now Abimelech the son of Jerubbaal, went to Shechem to his mother's family, and said unto them, and unto all the house of his mother's father,
through being a Son, did learn by the things which he suffered -- the obedience,
and Abiathar declareth unto David that Saul hath slain the priests of Jehovah.
And revealed are both of them unto the station of the Philistines, and the Philistines say, `Lo, Hebrews are coming out of the clefts where they have hid themselves.'
That through them I may prove Israel, whether they shall keep the way of the Lord to walked therein, as did their fathers keep it, or not.
and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ Lord unto God Father's glory.
And Gilead's wife bare sons, and when her sons became men, they sent Jephthah away, saying, Ye have no portion in the inheritance of our father's house, for thou art the son of another woman.
And he had seventy sons, that came out of his thigh, for he had the countries, wife.
and Abdon, son of Hillel, the Pirathonite, dieth, and is buried in Pirathon, in the land of Ephraim, in the hill-country of the Amalekite.
Saul and his men went to seek him. When David was told, he went down to the rock, and stayed in the wilderness of Maon. When Saul heard that, he pursued David in the wilderness of Maon.
Through faith he kept the passover, and the sprinkling of blood, lest he that destroyed the firstborn should toucheth them.
Yahweh's angel came up from Gilgal to Bochim. He said, "I brought you out of Egypt, and have brought thee to the land which I swore to give your fathers. I said, 'I shall never break my covenant with thee.
If indeed they had been thinking of that country out which they went out, they would have had enough time to return.
I also continue not to dispossess any from before them of the nations which Joshua hath left when he dieth,
that Jehovah called unto Samuel. And he said, Here am I.
For unto the angels hath he not put in subjection the world to come, whereof we speak.
And he shall take thy daughters for perfumers, and cooks, and bakers.
He said, "What is the thing that he hath spoken unto thee? Please don't hide it from me. God do so unto you, and much more also, if thou hide anything from me of all the things that he spoke to you."
And now they were come near Jebus, and the day was far spent: and the servant said unto his master, Come, I beseech thee, let us purifications accomplished, into the city of the Jebusites, and lodge there.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it into the temple of Dagon, and set it by Dagon.
And Gideon buildeth there an altar unto Jehovah, and Jehovah-Shalom, it calleth unto this day it yet in Ophrah, of the Abi-Ezrites.
And they say unto the messengers that come, `Thus do ye say unto the men of Jabesh-Gilead: To-morrow ye have safety -- by the fierceness of the sun;' and the messengers come and declare unto the men of Jabesh and they rejoice;
And Samson said, Let death overtake me with the Philistines. And he stretched forth all his strength, and the house fell upon the princes and upon all the people that were therein. So the dead whom he sent to nought by his death were more than all them upon whom he had overthrew in his life.
And the trees said unto the fig-tree, Come thou, reign over us.
And Jehovah saith unto Samuel, `Look not unto his appearance, and unto the height of his stature, for I have rejected him; for [it is] not as man seeth -- for man looketh at the eyes, and Jehovah looketh at the heart.'
having reasoned that God was able even to raise him from the dead, from whence he received him back also as a symbol.
Hear now unto their voice: but make a grave, rebuke unto them, and give them a figure of the manner of king that shall be prince over my people Israel.
Jephte therefore went with the princes of Galaad, and all the people made him their prince. And Jephte spoke all his words before Jehovah in Maspha.
And it shall come to pass, when their fathers nor their brethren come to complain unto us, that we shall say unto them, Gratify us with them, because we did not take each man his wife in the valor for ye did not give them unto them, that ye should now be guilty.
Then the men of the garrison answer Jonathan and his armor bearer, "Come up unto us, and we will show thee something!" Then Jonathan said unto his armor bearer, "Come up after me, for Yahweh hath delivered them into the hand of Israel!"
And ye shall bring up the ark of Jehovah, and lay it upon the cart, and the vessels of gold, which thou hast paid him for sin, ye shall cast into a little box, at the side thereof: and send it away that it may go.
But Barak pursued the chariots and the host to Harosheth of the Gentiles; and all the host of Sisera fell by the edge of the sword. And there was not a man left.
and he sent messengers to Abimelech in Tormah, saying, "Look, Gaal son of Ebed and his relatives are coming to Shechem, and they are stirring up the city against thee.
So the servants of David returned their way, and returning came and told him all the words that he had said unto them.
for it is testified, "You are a priest forever, according to the commandment of Melchizedek."
Therefore welcome him in Jehovah with all joy, and consider such people very great honored,
And when the children of Ammon fought against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to gather Jephthah back from the land of Tob;
After him Jair the Gileadite arose, and he judged Israel twenty and two years.
And they told it to Jotham, and he went and stood on the top of mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said unto them, Hearken unto me, ye citizens of Shechem, that God may hearken unto you.
And Jonathan said unto David, Come, and let us go forth into the country. And they went both of them out together into the open field.
And Moses indeed faithful in all his house, as a ministering servant, for a testimony of the things to be spoken after;
There is none holy as Jehovah, for there is none beside thee, neither is there any rock as our God.
Then Manoah prayed unto Jehovah, and said, O Jehovah, let the man of God whom thou didst send come unto us again and show us what we shall do for the child that is to come.
And he came up, and told his father and his mother, and said, I have seen a woman in Timnath of the daughters of the Philistines: now therefore empty her for me to wife.
As faith Abraham hath offer up Isaac, being tried, and the only begotten he did offer up that did receive the promises,
For I know that it shall be for my salvation, through thy prayer and a bribe out of the treasures of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
And Saul cast the and device, I will smite David and the wall. But David turned away from him twice.
neither did they show kindness unto the house of Jerubbaal, Gideon, according to all the goodness which he had shown to Israel.
yea, the five men, those going to traverse the land, go up -- they are come in thither -- they have taken the graven image, and the ephod and the teraphim, and the molten image -- and the priest shall standing at the dedication of the gate, and the six hundred men that are girded with weapons of war --
And he said, Go. And he sent her away for two months: and she went with her companions, and bewailed her virginity upon the mountains.
And the weight of the golden earrings that he they asked him was a thousand seven hundred of gold; besides the moons, and eardrops, and the purple, garments that were on the kings of Midian, and besides the bonds that were about their camels' necks of them.
And the Philistines were assembled together to battle with Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and people as the sand which is on the sea-shore in multitude; and they came up, and encamped in Michmash, eastward from Beth-Aven.
neither have they done kindness with the house of Jerubbaal -- Gideon -- according to all the good that he did with Israel.
And David was greatly distressed; for the people spoke of stone him; for the soul of all the people was embittered, every man because of his sons, and because of his daughters; but David strengthened himself in Jehovah his God.
For unto me life is Christ and death is profit.
When Yahweh raised up judges for them, then Yahweh was with the judge, and saved them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the sentence come forth from it grieved Yahweh because of their groaning by them that oppressed them, and troubled them.
And Samuel said, Is it not when thou wast little in thine eyes that thou the head of the tribes of Israel, and Jehovah anointed thee king over Israel?
He will take thy daughters with thee, as his incense singers and as cooks and as bakers.
Gilead's wife also bore for him sons; and the sons of his wife grew up and drove Jephthah away, and they said unto him, "You shall not inherit the house of our father because thou art the son of another woman."
And Moab was subdued on that day under the hand of Israel. And the land rested fourscore years.
He asked for water, and she called milk; in a drink bowl for nobles, she brought curds.
O ye of Israel, that have willingly offered your time to peril, bless Jehovah.
And David saith unto Saul, `A shepherd hath thy servant been to his father among the sheep, and the lion hath come -- and the bear -- and hath taken away a ram out of the drove,
And the princes of the Philistines said, What are these Hebrews? And Achish said unto the princes of the Philistines, Is not this David the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who hath been with me these days, or these years, and I have found nothing in him since the day of his fell away [to me] unto this day?
And David rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep with a shepherd, and take, and went, as Jesse had commanded him; and he came to the trench, as the host was going forth to the battle, and shouted for the battle.
And when the morning rose of the fifth day he rose up to go away; but the girl's father said, Keep up thy strength: So both of them had a meal, and the man and his woman and his servant went not until midnight. day.
and his returning to Ramath, for there his house, and there he hath judged Israel, and he buildeth there an altar unto Jehovah.
And the Philistines overtook Saul and his sons, and they slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul.
And David said to Achis: But what have I done, and what thou hast found in me thy servant, from the day that I have been in thy sight until this day, that I cannot and battle against the enemies of my lord the king?
When the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, Yahweh raised up a savior unto the children of Israel, who saved them, even Othniel, the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
The hoofs of the horses were broken whilst the enemies of the stoutest fled amain, and fell headlong down.
the grace with you all! Amen.
And he arose early in the morning, in the fifth day to depart; and the damsel's father said, Comfort thine heart, I pray thee. And they tarried until afternoon, and they did eat both of them.
Gideon said unto him, "Excuse me, my lord. If Yahweh is with us, wherefore then hath all this happened unto us? Where are all his wonderful deeds that our ancestors recounted unto us, saying, Yahweh 'Did not bring us up from Egypt?' But now Yahweh hath forsaken us; he hath given us into the palm of Midian."
But the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Why askest thou me about my name, seeing it is a wonder?
Now the Philistines gathered together their hosts to battle, and were gathered themselves together at Shochoh, which belongeth unto Judah, and pitched between Shochoh and Azekah, in Ephesdammim.
The wagon came into the field of Joshua of Beth Shemesh, and stood there, where was a great stone. And they split the wood of the cart, and offer up the kine for a burnt oblation unto Jehovah I
Yahweh repays to each one his righteousness and his faithfulness, for Yahweh gave you into my hand this day, but I was not willing to their ponds out my hand against Yahweh's anointed.
But he also despising the words of Israel, suffered him not to pass through his borders: but gathering an infinite multitude, went out against him to Jasa, and strengthened opposition.
Furthermore, the ark of God was captured, and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas died.
But now this is the thing that we will do unto Gibeah: [we go] by lot against it;
And David said unto Saul, Let no man's heart faint at him; I, thy servant, shall go forth, and have power over this Philistine.
And all the evil of the men of Shechem did God render again upon their ears: and upon them came the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbaal.
And these all, having obtained a good report through faith, received not the promise:
Now consider how great this man was, unto whom even the patriarch Abraham called the tenth of the spoils.
Now know ye the proof of him, that, as a with the father, so hath he served with me in the gospel.
But this we will do in common against Gabaa:
Brethren, take heed that there is not by chance in any one of you an evil heart without wise believe, turn from the living God:
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim.
And Abdon the son of Hillel, died and his body was gathered in Pirathon in the land of Ephraim, in the hill-country of the Amalekites.
For the thing which said, If the mountain is touch him, even by a beast, the beast shall be surely stoned, seemed hard to them;
Zebulun and Naphtali, were a people that jeoparded their lives unto the death in the high places of the field.
So both of them showed themselves to the garrison of the Philistines, and the Philistines said, "The Hebrews are going out of the clefts in which they have hidden themselves."
And the men of Israel were distressed that day; for Saul had adjured the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth any food until even, that I may be avenged on mine enemies. So none of the people tasted any food.
and a great priest over the house of God,
And the men of Jabesh spoken, To-morrow we shall come forth unto you, and ye shall do unto us whatsoever is good in thine eyes.
But if ye fear going down, take thy servant Purah with you, and go down to the tents.
Women received their dead by resurrection. Others were tortured, not accepting their deliverance, that they might obtain a better resurrection.
And they smote the Philistines that day from Michmash to Ajalon; and the people were very faint.
that thy rejoicing may abound in Christ Jesus in me through my presence with you again.
And the ambush hasted, and fell upon Gibeah: and the ambush drew along, and smote the whole city with the edge of the sword.
The children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, for he had nine hundred chariots of iron; and he mightily oppressed the children of Israel for twenty years.
As faith we apprehend that the worlds were framed by word of God, that that which is seen should not take its origin from things which appear.
David went from thence to Mizpeh, of Moab, and he said to the king of Moab, "Please let my father and my mother come out with thee, until For I know what God will do for me."
God, having once spoken unto the fathers through the prophets at the countries, and times and in various ways,
And Samuel said unto the people, Jehovah is one, who gave authority unto Moses and Aaron, and who brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
And the priest saith unto them, `Go in peace; over-against Jehovah thy way wherein ye go.'
Thou shalt all things without murmurings and down imaginations,
Now consider how great this man is, to whom also Abraham the patriarch gave tithes out of the principal things.
Saul heard that David was discovered, with the men that were with him. Now Saul was sitting in Gibeah, under the tamarisk tree in Ramah, with his spear in his hand; and all his servants were standing around him.
And Delilah taketh thick bands, new ones, and bindeth him with them, and saith unto him, `Philistines upon thee, Samson;' and the ambush is abiding in an inner chamber, and he breaketh them from off his arms as a web.
And Judah goeth up, and Jehovah giveth the Canaanite, and the Perizzite, into their hand, and they smite them in Bezek -- ten thousand men:
for thy proving the things that differ, that ye may be pure and offenceless -- to a day of Christ,
seeing therefore it remains that some enter into it, and they that first received the glad tidings did not enter in by reason of not hearkening unto the word,
God hath given into thy hand the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; what have I been able to do be compared unto thee? And when they heard it, their heart about him became kinder.
Far be it from us my hand upon the man whom with the anointing oil, but take the spear which is by his head, and the vessel of water, and let us go.
And when they forgat Jehovah their God, he sold them into the hand of Sisera, captain of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought against them.
We have an altar from which they that serve the holy tabernacle is not lawful for us to eat.
And now I have heard that thou hast shearers; now thy shepherds that were with us, we hurt them not, neither was there aught missed by them, all the while they were in Carmel.
And the weight of the earlets that he requested, was a thousand seven hundred sicles of gold, besides the oracle, and jewels, and purple, raiment which the kings of Madian were went to void, and besides the golden chains that were about the camels' necks of them.
And all the common people came into a forest, wherein they should honey upon the ground.
And David said unto his men, Gird ye on every man his sword. And they girded on every man his sword; and David also girded on his sword: and there went up after David about four hundred men; and two hundred abode by the stuff.
Ehud, escaped as they passed waited, beyond the stone idols, and escaped to Seirah.
But now they desire a good, that is to say, a heavenly country. Therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God; for he hath prepared for them a city.
And the Spirit of God doth prosper over Saul, in his heard it, and his measure, burneth greatly,
for of them beasts whose blood is carried [as sacrifices for sin] into the [holy of] holies by the high priest, of these the bodies are burned without the camp.
So that we may be as the thine enemies, and that our king may be our judge, and go out before us to war.
And Jehovah also shall deliver Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines; and to morrow thou and thy sons shall be with me: and Jehovah will also deliver the host of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
Let brotherly love abide.
So they removed the foreign gods from their midst and served Yahweh; and he could no more bear the misery of Israel.
So Saul said, "Bring here unto me the burnt oblation and the fellowship offerings." And he offered up the burnt thereof.
Then the men of Israel said unto Gideon, Rule thou over us, both thou, and thy son, and thy son's son also: for thou hast delivered us from the hand of Midian.
And the Sidonians, and Amalek, and Maon have oppressed you, and ye cry unto Me, and I save you out of their hand;
And it was so on the morrow, that Saul put the people in three companies; and they came into the midst of the host in the morning watch, and slew the Ammonites, until the fierceness of the day: and it came to pass, that they which remained were scattered, that two of them were not left together.
And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and they slew the Canaanites that inhabited Zephath, and utterly destroyed it; and they called the name of the city Hormah.
Now then observe to have no wine nor strong drink, and to take no unclean thing for food;
and they forget Jehovah their God, and He selleth them into the hand of Sisera, head of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they battle against them,
His supplication was for water, she called his milk; she put butter, before him on a goodly plate.
But when Israel came up out of Egypt, and henceforth bereave through the wilderness unto the Red sea, and came to Kadesh;
And his three eldest sons followed Saul to the battle: and the names of his three sons that went to the battle, were Eliab, the firstborn, and the second Abinadab, and the third Samma.
Now therefore beware and drink no wine nor strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing.
Nor the office of the priests unto the people; but whosoever had offer a sacrifice, the servant of the priest came, while the flesh was in boiling, with a fleshhook of three teeth in his hand,
This is yet more abundantly evident, if after the likeness of Melchizedek there arises another priest,
Then he spoken: I have sinned: yet honor me now before the ancients of my people, and before Israel, and return with me, that I may adore Jehovah thy God.
When they blew the trumpets, three hundred Yahweh set the sword of each one against his neighbor throughout the camp, and the whole camp fled as far as Beth Shittah toward Zererah, up to Abel Meholah, the border by Tabbath.
And over it were the cherubim of glory with their wings covered the mercy-seat; which it cannot now to write detail.
And when his armourbearer saw that Saul was dead, he fell upon his sword, and likewise died with him.
Now the sons of Saul were Jonathan Ishvi, and Malki-Shua; the names of his two daughters were as follows: the name of the firstborn was Merab and the younger was Michal.
Samuel said unto the people, "It is Yahweh that appointed Moses and Aaron, and that brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
When these went to Micah's wherewith they ministered, took they the divine carved image, ephod the teraphim, and the molten image, and the priest asked them, "What are ye doing?"
neither shall there be an old man in thy house.
And it came to pass in those days, when there was no king in Israel, that a certain Levite, sojourning upon the also side of mount Ephraim, took him a concubine out of Bethlehem-Judah.
When Samuel was old, he made his sons judges over Israel.
Samson went down to come upon Gaza; he looked, and, behold, a prostitute and known with her.
And it came to pass at the time that Merob the daughter of Saul should have been delivered unto David, that she was given to Hadriel the Molathite to wife.
And Jehovah heard the prayer of Manue, and the angel of Jehovah appeared again to his wife, as she was sitting in the field. But Manue her husband was not with her. And when she saw the angel,
These ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel came over against Gibeah, and the battle was severe; but they know that didn't disaster was close unto them.
And he had thirty sons; and thirty daughters he sent out of the house, and thirty daughters he took in from abroad for his sons. And he judged Israel seven years.
And there riseth after him Jaare-oregim the Gileadite, and was called after he judgeth Israel twenty and two years,
And she fixeth with the pin, and saith unto him, `Philistines upon thee, Samson;' and he awaketh out of sleep and journeyeth with the pin of the weaving machine, and with the web.
So Israel sent messengers to Sehon king of the Amorrhites, that dwelt in Hesebon, and they said unto him: Suffer me to pass through thy land unto the River.
But if ye be without chastisement, whereof all are partakers, then are ye bastards, and not sons.
For the word of God swift, and powerful, and sharper than any twoedged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul, and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is a discerner the thoughts and intents of the heart.
When she came unto him, she urged him to ask her father for a field. As she dismounted from the donkey, Caleb said unto her, "What do ye want?"
And the prophet Gad, said unto David, Abide not in the hold; depart, and get thee into the land of Judah. And David departed, and came into the forest of Hareth.
So he confided everything unto her, and he said unto her, "A razor hath not touch my head, for I am a Nazirite of God from birth. If I am shaved my strength shall leave me, and I will become weak, as every one else.
Jesus Christ the same yesterday, and to-day, and to the ages [to come].
Then David passed over to the other side, and stood on the top of the mountain afar off; a great space being between them;
`And, my father, behold, yea see the skirt of thine upper garment in my hand; for by cutting off the skirt of thy upper garment, and I have not slain thee, know and know that there is not in my hand evil, and transgression, and I have not sinned against thee, and thou art hunting my soul to take it:
And he also went to Ramah, and came to the great well that is in Secu: and he asked, "Where are Samuel and David?" One said, "Behold, they are at Naioth in Ramah."
And Samuel spoke unto all the house of Israel, voice, saying, If thou purifications accomplished, Jehovah with all thy heart, put away the foreign gods from among you, Baalim and Astaroth: and prepare thy heart unto Jehovah, and serve him only, and he shall deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
The Lord chose new wars, and he himself overthrew the gates of the enemies: a shield and spear was not seen among forty thousand of Israel.
lest Beware, brethren, perhaps there be in any one of you an evil heart of unbelief, in fell away from the living God;
and most of the brethren, trusting in Jehovah for my imprisonment, dare yet more to speak the word with boldness.
For as the son of Jesse liveth upon the earth, the priesthood is unsafe and thy kingdom is in jeopardy. So make him hither to me, for it is surely fit that he should be put to death.
All chastening seemeth for the present to be not yet grievous; joyous but afterward it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to them that have been exercised thereby.
And David said unto his men, Gird ye on every man his sword. And they girded on every man his sword; and David also girded on his sword; and there went up after David about four hundred men; and two hundred abode by the baggage.
and they take their bones, and bury under the tamarisk in Jabesh, and fast seven days.
and the women answer -- them played, and say, `Saul hath smitten among his thousands, And David among his myriads.'
And Micah said unto him, Dwell with me, and be my father and a priest, and I will give thee yearly ten silver-pieces, and a suit of thy garments, and victuals. And the Levite went in.
Samuel said, "Though thou wast little in your own sight, weren't ye made the head of the tribes of Israel? Yahweh anointed thee king over Israel;
And God was a witness with them, by signs and wonders, and by more than natural sorcery, and by his distribute the Holy Spirit will.
And behold they saw an old man, returning out of the field, and from his work when even was come, and he also was of mount Ephraim, and dwelt as a stranger in Gabaa; but the men of that country were the children of Jemini.
Gilead beyond the Jordan did tabernacle, And Dan -- why doth he hath sojourn ships? Asher abode at the haven of the seas, And by his creeks doth tabernacle.
And they laid the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the coffer with the mice of gold, and the graven images of their emerods.
So was the first rose up wherein Jonathan and his armor bearer killed about twenty men within about half of a furrow in an acre of an open field.
And the people told him after this manner, saying, So shall it be done unto the man that smites him.
Therefore ought we more diligently to observe the things which we have heard, lest perhaps we should let them slipped.
And they sent and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines, and they said, Cast out the ark of the God of Israel, and let it return unto its place, so that it cannot be the cause of death we and our people; for there was a great fear of death throughout all the city; the hand of God was very heavy upon them there.
So Delilah took new ropes and tied him up with them, and she said unto him, "The Philistines are upon thee, Samson!" That ambush was sitting in an inner room.) But he snapped them from his arms like web.
And Saul said unto him: Young man, what family art thou? And David said, I am the son of thy servant Isai the Bethlehemite.
and, behold, this the thing that we do unto Gibeah -- against it by lot!
He chooseth new gods, Then war at the gates! A shield is not seen -- and a spear Among forty thousand in Israel.
and cherubim of glory above it overshadowing the lovingkindness throne, of which things we speak now in detail. can't
And David said unto him, Wilt thou bring me down unto this band? And he said, If thou give me thy oath that thou wilt not kill me, nor give me up to my master! I will bring you unto them.
although I could have confidence even in the flesh. If any one else thinks to put confidence in the flesh, I can do so more:
He was asked by him whence he came. And he answered: I am a Levite of Bethlehem Juda, and I go to dwell where I can, and where I shall find a place to my advantage.
And the measure, of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he sold him into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the children of Ammon.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
For the law, possessing a shadow of the good things that are about to come, not the likeness of things itself, is not able year by year by means of the same sacrifices which they offer without interruption to make perfect them that draw at hand.
For ye know that afterwards, when he also wanted to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, because he did not find an occasion for repentance, although he sought it with tears.
As faith, concerning coming things, Isaac did bless Jacob and Esau;
And all the men of Shechem gathered together, and all the house of Millo, and went, and made Abimelech king by the plain of the pillar that was in Shechem.
Now there was a appointed sign between the men of Israel and the ambush, that they should make a thick column of smoke rise up out of the city.
And Gedeon said unto God: If thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said,
And David took all the flocks and the herds, they drove before the other cattle, and said, This is David's spoil.
whence also he is able to save unto the very end, them coming through him unto God -- ever living to make intercession for them.
circumcised on the eighth day, from the nation of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew born from Hebrews, according to the law a Pharisee,
And the priest giveth unto him the holy thing, for there was no bread there except the bread of the Presence which is turned aside from the presence of Jehovah to put hot bread in the day of its being taken away.
And they said, If ye send away the ark of the God of Israel, send it not empty; ye must at any number return him a trespass-offering: then ye shall be healed, and it shall be known unto you why his hand is not removed from thee.
The wadi torrent of Kishon swept them away, the raging wadi torrent, the wadi torrent of Kishon. March process of my soul, with strength!
and they have asked of thee of welfare, and given to thee two loaves, and thou hast received from their hand.
Then Saul said unto his servant, "Well said. Come, and let us go." So they went to the city which the man of God was.
`When Jacob hath come in to Egypt, and your fathers cry unto Jehovah, then Jehovah sendeth Moses and Aaron, and they bring forth thy fathers from Egypt, and cause them to dwell in this place,
Now therefore Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath dispossessed the Amorites, from before his people Israel, and thou shouldest possess it?
Now when it was evening they saw an old man resurrection of his work in the asses; he was from the hill-country of Ephraim and dwelt in Gibeah: but the men of the place were Benjamites.
And it shall come to pass, when Jehovah shall do unto my lord according to all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and shall appoint thee ruler over Israel,
And Jehovah sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor; and the captain of his host was Sisera, that dwelt in Harosheth-Goim.
David cried unto the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, voice, saying, Wilt thou not answer, Abner? And Abner answered and said, Who art thou, that criest, and disturbest the king?
If he be able to battle with me, and to kill me, then shall we minister unto thee: but if I prevail against him, and kill him, then shall ye be our servants, and serve us.
But now this is the thing that we will do unto Gibeah: we will go up against it by lot;
She said, "Oh, my lord, as thy soul lives, my lord, I am the woman that stood by thee into Egypt, praying unto Jehovah I
and as a garment thou shalt roll them up, and as a garment they shall I repent; but ye are the horns thereof shall be And thy years shall not run out."
And when they were come to the land of Suph, Saul said unto the servant that was with him: Come, and let us return, lest perhaps my father forget the asses, and be concerned for us.
And he taketh his staff in his hand, and chooseth for him five smooth stones from the brook, and putteth them in the shepherds' habiliments that he hath, even in the scrip, and his sling in his hand, and he draweth nigh unto the Philistine.
The angel of Yahweh did not appear again to Manoah and his wife, and then Manoah knew that he was a messenger of Jehovah I
For ye had compassion on them that were in prison, and rejoiced in the loss of thy possession, in the knowledge that thou yet had a better possession and one that thou wouldest keep for ever.
For it is God who is the cause of your pleasures and of thy doings; for his good will.
And he sent messengers throughout Manasseh, and they also were gathered after him; and he sent messengers to Asher, and to Zebulun, and to Naphtali; and they came up to meet them.
And so then thou shalt not let my blood fall to the ground away from the presence of Jehovah, for the king of Israel is gone out to seek a single flea, as one hunts a mountains." in the partridge
So David went, he and the six hundred men that were with him, and they came unto the torrent Besor; and they that were left stayed behind.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and put out of their minds Jehovah their God, and became servants to the Baalim and the Astartes.
And every priest indeed standeth daily ministering, and often offering the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins.
And she said unto him, "Give me a gift; thou hast given me the land of the Negev, and give me also a well of water." And Caleb gave unto her the upper and nether springs.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came mightily upon him, and he rent him as he would have rent a kid, and he had nothing in his hand; but he told not his father or his mother, that which he had done.
As faith Joseph, when he was dying, made mention of the going out of the children of Israel; and gave commandment concerning his bones.
Now Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty man of valour, and he was the son of an harlot: and Gilead, begat Jephthah.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
And all the men of Israel were gathered unto the city as one body united.
and Jehovah calleth unto Samuel, and he saith, `Here I.'
Go and cry unto the gods whereon ye have at all times; they -- they save thee in the time of thy adversity.'
and the king sitteth upon his throne, as time by time, on a throne by the wall, and Jonathan riseth, and Abner sitteth at the side of Saul, and David's place shall be sought sabbath.
And when I saw that ye would not save me, I put my life in my hand, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah gave them into my hand. Why then are ye come up unto me this day, to battle against me?
And the people speak unto him according to this word, saying, `Thus it is done unto him that smiteth him.'
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah gave them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
Gaal spoke again and said, "Behold, people are coming down by the midst of the land, and one company cometh by the way of the oak of Meonenim."
And they said unto him, Hold thy peace, lay thine hand upon thy mouth, and go with us, and be unto us a father and a priest: is it better for thee to be a priest unto the house of one man, or that thou be a priest unto a tribe and a house in Israel?
And the morrow after the demon from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of his house. And David played with his hand as at the other times. And Saul held a spear in his hand;
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up; behold, I have given the land into his hand.
And the children of Benjamin did so, and brought them wives, according to their number, after the of them that danced, whom they caught: and they went and returned unto their inheritance, and repaired the cities, and dwelt in them.
Ask me never the king of the children of Ammon didn't listen to the words of Jephthah which he sent him.
That I may know him, and of the power of his resurrection of the dead, and a portion with him in his plagues become like him in his death;
though he were Son, he learned obedience from the things which he suffered;
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah because of the Midianites,
And the station of the Philistines goeth out unto the passage of Michmash.
having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holy place by the blood of Jesus,
But early in the morning, when Nabal had digested his wine, his wife told him these words, and his heart died within him, and he became as a stone.
Then Samuel said, "Bring Agag the king of Amalek out to me!" Agag came unto him confidently, for Agag device, "Surely the bitterness of death is over."
And it shall come to pass in the morning, when the sun is up, thou shalt rise early, and fall upon the city; and behold, he and the people that is with him shall come out against thee, and thou shalt do with him as thou shalt find occasion.
And Jonathan climbed up upon his hands and upon his feet, and his armourbearer after him: and they fell before Jonathan; and his armourbearer slew after him.
And the child Samuel grew and was in favour both with Jehovah, and also with men.
The blessings be upon Jael, more than upon all women! Blessings greater than upon any in the tents!
And she sent and called Barac the son of Abinoem out of Cedes in Nephtali: and she said unto him, Thus saith God of Israel hath commanded thee: Go, and lead an army unto mount Thabor, and thou shalt take with thee ten thousand valiant men of the children of Nephtali, and of the children of Zabulon:
But of doing good, and communicating [of thy substance] be not forgetful, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.
And Samson said unto them, Though ye have done this, yet will I be avenged of thee, and after that I will cease.
And the young men of David come in, and speak unto Nabal according to all these words, in the name of David -- and rest.
But his concubine felt repugnance toward him, and she left him, and went to her father's house, to Bethlehem in Judah; she was there some four months.
But the men would not hearken unto him: so is the man took his woman and sent her out unto them; and they forced her, and her for their pleasure all night until the morning; and while the day came they let her go.
So the five men going on came to Lais: and they saw how the people dwelt therein without any fear, according to the custom of the Sidonians secure and easy, having no man at all to oppose them, having great rich, and dwell separated, at a distance Sidon, and from all men.
But I will not shall speak concerning my necessities, for I am ready whithersoever I am, to be fed from myself.
And Jehovah addeth to call Samuel the third time, and he goeth unto Eli, and riseth and saith, `Here I, for thou hast called for Eli me;' and understandeth that Jehovah is cursed still to the youth.
Samuel said unto Saul, "Yahweh sent me to anoint thee to be king over his people, over Israel. Now therefore listen unto the voice of Yahweh's words.
And Samuel said, What then this bleating abiding in mine ears, and the lowing of oxen which I hear?
The cities which the Philistines had taken out of Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron even to Gath; and Israel recovered the border out of the hand of the Philistines. There was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
The princes of the Philistines were passing upon according to hundreds, and thousands, David and his men passing upon at the rear with Achish.
He therefore let us offer the sacrifice of thanks to God continually, that is, the fruit of our lips giving thanks to his name.
And Saul was yet the more afraid of David: and Saul waxed David's enemy continually.
the sound of a trumpet, and the voice of words; which they that heard it begged that none more word should be spoken unto them,
And the men did so, and took two milch kine, and tied them unto the cart, and shut up their calves at home.
David answered, "Behold the O king. Then let one of the young men come over and fetch it.
For the rest, brethren, whatsoever things faithful, whatsoever things whatsoever things whatsoever things noble, just, pure, amiable, whatsoever things whatsoever things of good report; if [there be] any godliness and if any thanks, think upon these things.
And behold, if they had been mindful of that country from whence they came out, they might have had opportunity to have returned.
Then the tribes of Israel sent messengers throughout all the tribes of Benjamin, saying, "What is this wickedness that happened among you?
I will shoot three arrows upon its side, as though I shot at blemish.
They that strive with Jehovah shall be broken to pieces; in the heavens shall he thunder upon them. Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth; and he will give strength unto his king, and exalt the horn of his anointed.
And he caused the tribe of Benjamin, to draw near according to their families, and the family of Matri was taken: and Saul the son of Kish, was taken. And they sought him, but he was not be found.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, and Jehovah raised them up a saviour, Ehud, the son of Gera, the Benjaminite, a man left-handed. And next unto him the children of Israel sent a gift to Eglon king of Moab.
In those days was there no king in Israel. In those days the tribe of the Danites sought an inheritance to dwell in; for unto that day, their inheritance had not fallen unto them among the tribes of Israel.
"The vine said unto them, 'Should I leave my new wine, which cheers God and man, and go to wave back, and forth over the trees?'
And he answer them: I Because Israel took away my land when he came up out of Egypt, from the confines of the Arnon unto the Jaboc and the Jordan; now therefore restore the same peaceably unto me.
And gathering together an army, he defeated Amalec, and delivered Israel from the hand of them that spoiled them.
And the men of Israel, that were beyond the valley, and beyond the Jordan, seeing the Israelites were fled, and that Saul was dead, and his sons, forsook their cities, and fled: and the Philistines had come and dwelt there.
And he swore again unto David. And David said, Thy father surely knoweth that I have found favor in thy sight, and he shall say: Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved. But verily as Jehovah liveth, and thy soul liveth, there is but one step (as I may say) between me and death.
Thy servant smote both the lion and the bear met him; and this uncircumcised Philistine shall be as one of them, because he hath defied the camp of the living God.
And we exhort you, brethren, that each one of you do shew the same diligence to the full assurance of hope unto the end:
Then Samuel, when they had heard all the people were to say, went and told it unto Jehovah.
He used to go on the circuit from year to year. And he walked around Bethel, Gilgal, and Mizpah, and he judged Israel in all these places.
All these died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them from afar off and embraced , and confessed that they were strangers and sojourners upon the earth.
for, doubtless, of messengers it doth not lay hold, but of seed of Abraham it layeth hold,
And David arose, and he and his men went and struck down two hundred men of the Philistines. And David brought their foreskins, and they presented the sum of all the to become the king's son-in-law. Then Saul gave him Michal his daughter according to all that his wife.
And the Philistine draweth nigh, morning and evening, and stationeth himself forty days.
And Samson's wife wept before him, and said, Thou dost but hatred me, and lovest me not: thou hast put forth a riddle unto the children of my people, and hast not told it me. And he said unto her, Behold, I have not told it my father nor my mother, and shall I tell it thee?
There is no creature that is hidden from his sight, but all things are naked and laid open in the sight of him to whom we must give an account.
The servants of Saul told him, saying, "David spoke like this."
for, Jehovah liveth, that is saving Israel: surely if it be in Jonathan my son, surely he doth surely die;' and none is answered him out of all the people.
Wherefore have ye not listen unto the voice of Yahweh and fall with shouting upon the plunder? Thou hast done that which was evil in the sight of Yahweh!"
Yahweh's angel appeared unto the woman, and said unto her, "See now, ye are barren and childless; but ye shall conceive, and bear a son.
But Sihon trusted not Israel to pass through his coast: but Sihon gathered all his people together, and pitched in Jahaz, and fought against Israel.
She saith unto him, "My father, ye sware unto Jehovah I Thou shalt unto me according to that which is gone out of thy mouth, since Yahweh gave vengeance to you against thy enemies, the Ammonites."
And the children of Benjamin did not drive out the Jebusites, that inhabited Jerusalem; but the Jebusites dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
Wherefore I was grieved with that generation, and said, They alway do err in their heart; and they have not known my ways.
And he said unto them, Follow after me, for Jehovah hath delivered thine enemies the Moabites into thy hand. And they went down after him, and took the fords of the Jordan toward Moab, and suffered none to pass over.
As a new and dwell way, which he hath consecrated for us, through the veil, that is to say, his flesh;
And he went to his father's house at Ophrah, and put his brethren, the seventy sons of Jerubbaal, to death in one marble; yet Jotham, the youngest, kept be established by going away to a hidden place.
ye Curse Meroz, said the angel of Jehovah, curse ye sorely the inhabitants thereof; because they came not to succor of Jehovah, to the help of Jehovah against the mighty.
and Samuel saith, `Bring ye nigh unto me Agag king of Amalek,' and Agag cometh unto him daintily, and saith, Agag `Surely the bitterness of death hath turned aside.'
Her rival provoked her severely, to irritate her, because Yahweh had shut up her womb.
By the which shall we are sanctified through the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
David said unto Jonathan "Behold, to-morrow is the new moon, and I should not fail to dine with the king: but let me go, that I may hide myself in the field to the third day at the even.
and to them in Hormah, and to them in Chor-ashan, and to them in Athach,
And when Gaal saw the people, he said unto Zebul: Behold a multitude cometh down from the mountains. And he answer him: Thou seest the shadows of the mountains as if they were the heads of men, and this is thy mistake.
And he turned a little aside from him to another: and said the same word. And the people answer him as aforetime.
And Saul said unto David, Here is my first-born daughter of Saul, whom I will give thee for an wife: only play the man for me, strife in the Lord's wars. For Saul said, Let it not be through me that his calamity cometh unto him, but through the Philistines.
And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus.
So Saul returned from pursuing David, and rebelled against the Philistines. Therefore they called the name of that place Sela Hammahlekoth.
So the people sent to Shiloh, and gathered the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts that dwelleth between the cherubim; and Hophni and Phinehas the two sons of Eli, were there with the ark of God's covenant.
And they said unto him, Hold thy peace, lay thy hand upon thy mouth, and go with us, and be unto us a father and a priest. Is it better for thee to be a priest for the house of one man, or to be priest for a tribe and a house in Israel?
The children of Israel said, "Who is there among all the tribes of Israel that didn't stand up in the assembly to Yahweh?" For they had made a great oath concerning him that come up to didn't Yahweh to Mizpah, saying, "He shall surely be put to death."
And the Israelites said unto Jehovah, "We have sinned; do unto us accordingly as ye see fit; only please deliver us this day."
For the rest, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever modest, whatsoever just, whatsoever holy, whatsoever lovely, whatsoever of good fame, if there be any fornication, if any praise of discipline, think upon these things.
And they said unto the men of Benjamin, Go into the vineyards, wait there secretly, saying,
But to do good and to communicate forget not: for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.
Count not thy handmaid for one of the daughters of Belial: for out of the abundance of my sorrow and affliction have I spoken until now.
and he stabbed it into the pan, or kettle, or cauldron, or pot. The priest took all that the shovel brought up for himself. So they did in Shiloh, unto all the Israelites that came there.
And thou shalt see thy rival in the temple, in all the prosperity of Israel, and there shall not be an old man in thy house for ever.
When Abigail saw David, she hurried and gathered off of her donkey, and fell before David upon her face, and bowed herself to the ground.
And the people come in unto Beth-El, and sit there until the evening before God, and lift up their voice, and weep -- a great weeping,
Now the children of Israel had given assurance unto them, whom they had laid in ambushes, that, when they made the city, they should make a fire: that by the smoke rising on high, they might shew that the city was taken.
For we do not have a high priest that is not able to sympathize with our weaknesses, but who hath been tempted in all things in like manner without sin.
And Samuel taketh a stone, and setteth between Mizpeh, and Shen, and calleth its name Eben-Ezer, saying, Jehovah hath `Hitherto us.' helped,
And Saul riseth, and goeth down unto the wilderness of Ziph, and with him three thousand men, chosen ones of Israel, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
And Manoah said, Now let thy words come to pass. How shall we order the child, and how shall we do unto him?
His father went down unto the woman, and Samson prepared there a feast, as young men were accustomed to do this thing.
Awake, awake, Deborah; Awake, awake, utter a song; Rise, Barak, and take captive thy captivity, Son of Abinoam.
And the king of the children of Ammon, said unto Jephthah's messengers, "Because Israel took my land from the Arnon up to the Jabbok, and the Jordan when they came up from Egypt; so therefore restore it peacefully."
And when they rose up early in the morning after, Dagon had come down to the earth upon his face before the ark of Jehovah; and his head and his hands were broken off on the doorstep; only the foundation was in its place.
Go now, and take more ways, And see where he lived again: for they say, that he is skilful in deceit.
And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into the parlour, and made them sit in the chiefest place among them that were bidden, which were about thirty souls.
And Saul chose him three thousand men of Israel: and two thousand were with Saul in Machmas, and in mount Bethel: and a thousand with Jonathan in Gabaa of Benjamin, and the rest of the people he sent back every man to their dwellings.
And the staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam, and the head of his spear weighed six hundred sicles of iron: and his armourbearer went before him.
Saul was told that David was come to Keilah. Saul said, "God hath delivered him into my hand; for he is besieged entering into a city that hath gates and bars."
And I will bring unto thee in the court of the torrent Cison, Sisara shalt of Jabin's army, and his chariots, and all his multitude, and will deliver them into thy hand.
And they gave him seventy shekels of silver, from the house of Baal-berith, wherewith Abimelech rose up the pillars of many rebellious and worthless souls.
Again, Jesse made seven of his sons to pass before Samuel. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Jehovah hath not chosen these.
Then the troops took the plunder: they took sheep and cattle, and calves and slaughtered them on the ground and the troops ate them all with the blood.
Is not this David, to whom they sung in their dances, voice, saying, Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
being filled with the fruit of righteousness, that through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
Then Jonathan said unto David, "Yahweh the God of Israel is my witness that I will matter my father by this time the morrow after to-morrow. And look, if he be well disposed toward you, shall I not elder unto thee, and disclose ye?
And if to live in the flesh, to me a fruit of work, then what shall I choose? For I know not;
And the Angel of Jehovah said unto him, How is it that thou askest after my name, seeing it is wonderful?
And David said to Abishai, Destroy him not; for who can their ponds forth his hand against Jehovah's anointed, and be guiltless?
He scraped it out into his hands, and he went, eating it as he went. And he went to his father and his mother and gave some unto them, and they ate it. But he did not tell them that he had scraped the honey out of the body of the lion.
and also all the generation, have been gathered unto their fathers, and another generation riseth after them that have not known Jehovah, and even the work which He hath done unto Israel.
And he sent unto Abimelech at Arumah, saying, Behold, Gaal, the son of Ebed and his brethren are come to Shechem, and they are stirring up a city against thee.
and that most of the brethren in Jehovah, being confident through my bonds, are more abundantly bold to speak the word of God with boldness.
And David riseth, and passeth over, he and six hundred men that with him, unto Achish son of Maoch king of Gath;
Samuel arose, and went from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin. Saul numbered the people that were present with him, about six hundred men.
And though by this time it would be lawful for thee to you teachers, thou yet have need of one to teach you concerning the first simple statutes of God's revelation; thou art become as those that have need of milk, and not of solid food.
And this shall be a sign unto thee, that shall come upon thy two sons, Ophni, and Phinees: In one day they both of them shall die.
He shall take one tenth of your flock: and ye shall be his servants.
And he sent messengers to the king of Edom, voice, saying, Suffer me to pass through thy land. But he would not condescend to his required. He sent also to the king of Moab, that likewise refused to give him passage. He abode therefore in Cades,
And all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came to Samuel to Ramah.
And Samson's wife wept before him, and said, Thou dost but hatred me, and hast Thou lovest me not. propounded the riddle unto the children of my people, and hast not explained it unto me. And he said unto her, Behold, I have not explained it to my father nor my mother, and shall I explain it unto thee?
For Christ is not entered into the holy places made with hands, which are the figures of the true: but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us:
And Samuel saith unto the people, `Jehovah -- He that made Moses and Aaron, and who brought up your fathers out of the land of Egypt!
and it hath been when their fathers nor their brethren come in unto plead unto us, that we have spoken unto them, Favour us them, for we have not taken each his wife in battle, for ye -- ye have not given unto them at this time ye are guilty.'
Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and encamped in the valley of Elah and set the battle in array against the Philistines.
So the Philistines prevailed not, neither did not come into the country of Israel again: and all the days of Samuel the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines.
And others mocking and experienced flogging, and besides bonds and imprisonment.
If he is able to battle with me, and kill me, then shall we be thy servants; but if I prevail against him, and kill him, then thou shalt be our servants, and serve us."
Thou shalt not depart until I come with my sacrifice and set it before thee. And he said, I will not go away before thee return.
Why do ye despise my sacrifice and my sacrifice which I commanded for my dwelling place, while ye honored thy sons more than me by making yourselves fat from the first of all the sacrifices of my people Israel?
But David saying, Ye shall not do so, my brethren, with these things, which Jehovah hath given us, who hath kept us, and hath delivered the robbers that invaded us into our hand.
So David struck the land and did not leave a man or woman alive; he took the sheep, the cattle, the donkeys, the camels, and the raiment. And he returned and came to Achish.
But unto stay upon in the flesh is more necessary for thy sake.
And it came to pass, when Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled to David unto Keilah, he came down with an ephod in his hand.
He gathered the children of Ammon, and Amalek in his own eyes; and he went and struck Israel, and they possessed the city of palm wood.
And she sendeth and calleth for Barak son of Abinoam, out of Kedesh-Naphtali, and saith unto him, `Hath not Jehovah, God of Israel, commanded? go, and thou hast drawn towards mount Tabor, and hast taken with thee ten thousand men, out of the sons of Naphtali, and out of the sons of Zebulun,
And the ark of Jehovah was in the country of the Philistines seven months.
Then Jesse said unto his son David, "Please possess brethren an ephah of this roasted grain and these ten loaves of bread, and bring them haste to the camp for your brethren.
And David sweareth to Saul; and Saul goeth unto his house, and David and his men are gone up unto the fortress.
and Phinehas the son of Eleazar the son of Aaron stood before it in those days), saying, Shall I yet more go forth to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I cease? And Jehovah said unto him, Go up; for to-morrow I will deliver them into thy hand.
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armor bearer, and all his men, that same day together.
For if the word spoken through angels proved steadfast, and every transgression and received a just recompense; disobedience
and that I may be found in him, not having my righteousness, which [would be] upon the principle of law, but that which is by faith of Christ, the righteousness which of God through faith,
When these went into Micah's house, and took the engraved image, the ephod the teraphim, and the molten image, the priest said unto them, "What are ye doing?"
Gilead lived beyond the Jordan was Why did Dan remain in ships? Asher sat yet at the haven of the sea, and lived by his creeks.
In these days hath spoken unto us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the world.
Anna answered and said, Not so, my lord: for I am an exceeding wretched woman, and have drunk neither wine nor any strong drink, but I have poured out my soul before Jehovah.
And ye shall cry out in that day from the face of the king, whom thou hast chosen to yourselves. and Jehovah will not hear thee in that day, because ye pleasant unto you a king.
and him that was made some little less than messengers we see -- Jesus -- because of the suffering of the death, with glory and honor having been crowned, that by the grace of God for every lamb he might taste of death.
And the servants of Saul told him: Such words as these hath David spoken.
And David said to Abigail Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, which sent thee this day to meet me:
David inquired of Jehovah, saying, "If I pursue after this troop, will I overtake them?" He answer him, "Pursue; for thou shalt surely overtake them, and will without fail recover all."
And therefore he is the mediator of the new testament: that by means of his death, for the redemption of them transgressions, that were under the former covenant, they that are called may receive the promise of eternal inheritance.
The family of the Danites set forth from Zorah, and Eshtaol, with six hundred men that weapons of war.
And Delilah saw that he had told her all his heart, and she sent and called for the lords of the Philistines saying, Come up this time, for he hath told me all his heart. And the lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and brought the money in their hand.
each not to your own appearance each ye, but also for the things of others.
Samuel said unto all Israel, "Behold, I have listened unto thy voice in all that thou said unto me, and have made a king over thee.
And Saul said unto Samuel, Yea, I have obeyed the voice of Jehovah, and have gone the way which Jehovah sent me, and have brought Agag the king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed the Amalekites.
But when the flame began to arise up out of the city with a pillar of smoke, the Benjamites as one behind them, and, behold, the flame of the city ascended up to heaven.
So Micah appointed the Levite, and the young man became a priest for him; and he was in the house of Micah.
and they cut off his head, and strip off his weapons, and send into the land of the Philistines round about, to proclaim tidings the house of their idols, and the people;
And Jael went out to meet Sisera, and said unto him, Turn in, my lord, purifications accomplished, in unto me; fear not. And he turned in unto her, into the tent, and she covered him with the quilt.
And Samuel saith unto all the people, `Have ye seen him on whom Jehovah hath fixed, for there is none like him among all the people?' And all the people shout, and say, `Let the king live!'
So I have not sinned against thee, but it is thou that doest me crime in warring against me. Jehovah, the Judge, judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon!
And these are the golden emerods which the Philistines returned for a trespass oblation unto Jehovah; for Ashdod, one, for Gaza, one, for Askelon one, for Gath one, for Ekron one;
For although by this time ye should you teachers, thou again need to have one teach you the rudiments of the first principles of the revelations of God. Ye are come unto need milk, and not solid food.
And then let them be turned away, none can their heart to be renewed a second time: because they themselves put the Son of God upon the cross again, confess shame him.
For this one is considered worthy of greater glory than Moses, inasmuch as clay; that builds it hath greater honor than the house.
for yet a very very little, He that cometh shall come, and shall not tarry;
So David and the six hundred men that were with him went over to Achish, the son of Maoch, king of Gath.
And Jonathan said unto the young man that bore his armour, Come, and let us go over to the garrison of these uncircumcised: perhaps Jehovah will work for us; for there is no restraint unto Jehovah to save by the countries, nor by few.
And she said unto her father, Let this thing be done for me: let me alone two months, that I may go up and down upon the mountains, and bewail my virginity, I and my fellows.
And David and the people that were with him they wept till they were able to weep not.
They were stoned, and they were sawn asunder, were tempted, were slain with the sword: they wandered to pass in rams' skins and goatskins; being destitute, afflicted, tormented;
So Samuel spoke all the words of Yahweh unto the people that were a king from him.
Wherefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel: I said indeed that thy house, and the house of thy father should minister in my sight, for ever. But now saith Jehovah: Far be this from me: but whosoever shall glorify me, him will I glorify: but they that despise me, shall be despised.
And he goeth down and speaketh unto the woman, and she is right in the eyes of Samson;
Then said Samuel, Bring ye hither to me Agag the king of the Amalekites. And Agag came unto him delicately. And Agag said, Surely the bitterness of death is old.
And they said one to another, `Who hath done this thing?' and they inquire and seek, and they say, `Gideon son of Joash hath done this thing.'
and they declare unto Jotham, and he goeth and standeth on the top of mount Gerizim, and lifteth up his voice, and calleth, and saith unto them, `Hearken unto me, O masters of Shechem, and God doth hearken unto thee:
Now the Bethsamites were reaping wheat in the valley: and lifted up their eyes they saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.
The Lord therefore be officers peace, and judge between me and thee, and see, and plead my cause, and deliver me out of thine hand.
Ye that ride upon white she-asses, ye that sit upon carpets, and ye that walked by the way, consider.
And when this was told Saul, he sent other messengers: but they also prophesied. And again Saul sent messengers the third time: and they prophesied also. And Saul being exceedingly wroth,
and in this place, again, "They shall not enter into my rest."
But if they shall write: Come up unto us: let us go up, because Jehovah hath delivered them into our hands, this shall be a sign unto us.
and bring these ten cheeses to the captain of their thousand, and see how thy brethren do, and bring back news."
And the children of Dan were cast into the hill-country of the Amorites, who would not let them come down into the valley,
The five men, that before had been sent to see the land of Lais, said unto the rest of their brethren: Ye know that in these houses there is an ephod, and theraphim, and a graven, and a molten god: see what ye desire to do.
When they rose up early in the morning, the next day, there was Dagon fallen again with his face to the ground before the ark of Yahweh! The head of Dagon and the palms of his two hands were cut off, lying at the threshold; only the body of Dagon was left.
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, Go upon cry unto Jehovah our God for us to deliver us out of the hand of the Philistines.
For if a man finds his enemy, shall he let him go away unharmed? Therefore may Yahweh reward thou good for that which thou hast done unto me this day.
And therefore we also having so great a cloud of witnesses over our head, laying aside every weight and sin which surrounds us, let us run by patience to the battle proposed unto us:
And likewise he sprinkled both the tabernacle and all the utensils of service with the blood.
And when they came thither to the hill, behold, a company of prophets met him; and the Spirit of God came upon him, and he prophesied among them.
Know ye not possess what Chemosh thy god gave you to possess? Whosoever Yahweh our God hath driven out before us, we shall possess it.
for even owing unto you teachers, because of the time, again ye have need that one teach thee what the elements of the beginning of the oracles of God, and ye are become having need of milk, and not of strong food,
And Nahash the Ammonite said unto them, On this will I treat with thee, that I thrust out all thy right eyes, and lay it for a reproach upon all Israel.
And the host of the Philistines went out in order unto advance also in Machmas.
And Barak called Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh; and he went up with ten thousand men at his feet: and Deborah went up with him.
She fell at his feet and said, "On me, my lord, be the guilt! Please let thy female servant speak unto thee personally! Hear the words of thy female servant!
They Sisera that told Barak the son of Abinoam was gone up unto mount Tabor.
Whereupon neither was the first indeed dedicated without blood.
For where a last shall and covenant is, there must of necessity be the death of him that made it.
and Zalmunna Zebab and flee, and he pursueth after them, and captureth the two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna, and all the camp he hath manifested at tremble.
Inasmuch as it is appointed for men to die once, and after this, judgment,
He will take your daughters to be perfumers, to be cooks, and to be bakers.
And now beware, I pray thee, and drink no wine nor strong drink, and eat nothing unclean.
And Gideon said unto God, Let not thine measure, when thou be hot against me, and I will speak but this once: let me prove, I pray thee, but this once with the fleece; let it now be dry only upon the fleece, and upon all the ground ye shall have dew.
One rock stood out towards the north over against Machmas, and the other southward over against Gabaa.
Yahweh raised up judges, who saved them out of the hand of them that plundered them.
And Abimelech and the companies that were with him, rushed Zerahites: and he stood in the entrance of the gate of the city; and two of the companies ran upon all that were in the fields, and slew them.
What then? only that in every way, falsely or behold, the preaching of Christ goeth to wear away; and in this I am glad, and shall be glad.
Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning; and Samuel was told, saying, "Saul came to Carmel, and behold, he set up a monument for himself, and soul, and passed over, and went down to Gilgal."
And the Philistine said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest unto me with staves? And the Philistine devoted David by his gods.
And the sons of the Kenite, and father-in-law of Moses, are gone up out of the city of palms with the sons of Judah the wilderness of Judah, which in the south of Arad, and they go and dwell with the people.
My prayer was for this child; and Jehovah hath given him to me at my request:
His concubine that was in Shechem also bore for him a son, and he called him Abimelech.
But I beseech you, brethren, bear the word of exhortation, for it is but in few words that I have written unto you.
And only the stump of Dagon remained in its place. Therefore neither the priests of Dagon, nor any that enter into the temple tread upon the threshold of Dagon in Azotus unto this day.
So David prevailed over the Philistine with a sling and with a stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him; but there was no sword in the hand of David.
Yet a man is risen to pursue thee, and to seek thy soul: but the soul of my lord shall be bound in the bundle of life with Jehovah thy God; and the souls of thine enemies, them shall he sling out, as out of the midst of a sling.
And saith, Gaal son of Ebed `Who Abimelech and who Shechem, that we serve him? is not son of Jerubbaal? and Zebul his commander? Serve ye the men of Hamor father of Shechem and wherefore do we serve him -- we?
So David's young men, disobedience, returned and told him of all that he had said.
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, Cease not to cry unto Jehovah our God for us, that he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and forgat Jehovah their God, and served Baalim and the groves.
and the house of Joseph cause to spy about Beth-El (and the name of the city formerly is Luz),
David arose also afterwards, and went out of the cave, and cried after Saul, saying, My lord the king. And when Saul sought behind him, David bowed with his face to the earth, and did obeisance.
Now therefore Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath taken away their land from the Amorites, and delivered it into his people Israel; are ye also to have it?
So they took their way; and the sun went down when they drew nigh unto Gibeah in the land of Benjamin.
And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said unto him, The blessing of Jehovah be with thee: I have done the ordinance of the Lord.
But the lad Samuel continued to grow in stature and in favor with Yahweh and with the people.
And the woman had in the house a young heifer that is made fat flesh; and she kill it straight away; and she took flour and gathered it mingled and made unleavened bread;
And rising early the next day, they built an altar: and offer there holocausts, and victims of peace, and they spoken:
through him, therefore we may offer up a sacrifice of thanks always to God, even the fruit of lips, giving thanks unto his name;
Therefore, when he was come into the world, he said, "Sacrifice and oblation that ye did not want, But a body thou prepared for me;
And Saul held his peace that day; for he device, Something hath befallen , that he is not clean: surely he is not clean.
And also of the Mighty One of Israel shall not lie nor repent: for he is not a man, that he should repent.
(for who was it, that having heard, provoked? but [was it] not all that came forth out of Egypt with against Moses?
And the women answer one another as they played, and said, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands.
And Jephthah said unto them, I and my people were in a temptation and the children of Ammon were very ill with us, and when I entreat you thou gavest me no help against them.
being designated by God a high priest according to the commandment of Melchizedek.
Therefore now return, and go in peace, that thou not displease the lords of the Philistines."
Now Saul had given Michal his daughter, David's wife, to Palti the son of Laish, who was of Gallim.
Only go in the fear of Jehovah, and be his good stewards with all thy heart, remembering what great things he hath done for you.
and cometh in unto his house, and taketh the knife, and layeth hold on his concubine, and cutteth her in pieces unto her bones -- into twelve pieces, and sendeth her into all the border of Israel.
And David said to Abiathar the priest, Ahimelech's son, Bring near unto me, I pray thee, the ephod inward. And Abiathar brought the ephod near unto David.
Then Achish called for David, and said unto him, As Jehovah liveth, thou be righteous, and all that thou hast done with me in the camp hath been well-pleasing unto me: I have seen no evil in thee from the day that ye came unto me until now: yet the lords are displeased with thee.
And every bad and worthless man, of the men that go with David, answereth, yea, they say, `Because that they have not gone with us we do not give to them of the spoil which we have delivered, except each his wife, and his children, and they lead away and go.
After whom did the king of Israel out? After whom dost thou pursuing? After a dead dog? After one flea?
Feeling that it was profitable anguish with the house of God, than for a little while, and to eat pleasures of sin;
And David and his men dwelt with Achish at Gath; every man had his brethren with him, and David had his two wives also, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail of Carmel, that had been the wife of Nabal.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Jehovah sent me to anointed thee and to make thee king over his people, over Israel: so hearken now to the words of Jehovah.
And as for thine asses, that were lost three days ago, set not thy mind upon them; for they are found. And on whom is all the desire of Israel? Is it not upon thee, and upon all thy father's house?
And it came to pass at the end of two months, that she returned unto her father, that did with her according to his vow which he had vowed: and she knew no man. And it was a custom in Israel,
So Manoah took the shalt with the meal-offering thereof, offering it upon the rock unto Jehovah, that did foreign things.
And Saul encamped in Gabaa Hachila, that was over against the wilderness in the way; and David abode in the wilderness. And seeing that Saul was come after him into the wilderness,
And David said unto the Philistine, Thou comest unto me with sword, and with spear, and with javelin; but I come unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the camp of Israel, whom thou hast defied.
Now set up them vain persons in Gibeah that we may slay them, and cleareth away the evil from Israel. But the children of Benjamin would not hearken unto the voice of their brethren the children of Israel.
And Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him, and let none of his words fall to the ground.
So David rebuked his men with the words and did not allow them to rise against Saul. And Saul arose from the cave, and he went his way.
And he said unto them: Follow me; for Jehovah hath delivered our enemies the Moabites into our hand. And they went down after him, and seized upon the fords of the Jordan, which are in the way to Moab: and they suffered no man to pass over.
And David came to Saul, standing before him: and he began to dear unto Saul, that made him his servant, to tell him that the charge of his shoulders.
The lad left hand, and then David arose from the south side and he fell upon his face to the ground and bowed thrice. And they kissed each other and wept together, but David wept the many.
Othniel, the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother, took it, and he gave him Achsah his daughter according to all that his wife.
And the lamp of God is not yet extinguished, and Samuel is lying down in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God ,
and apart from all controversy, the less by the better is blessed --
'Have they not found, have they not divided the plunder? A lady, two ladies to every man; to Sisera a plunder of dyed garments, a plunder of dyed garments embroidered, of dyed garments embroidered upon both sides; on the neck of the plunder?'
Don't be carried away by various and sojourners teachings, for it is good that the heart be established by grace, not by food, through which they that were so occupied were not benefited.
Let our lord now command thy servants, that are before thee, to seek out a man, that is a cunning play well on an harp: and it shall come to pass, when the demon from God is upon thee, that he shall play with his hand, and thou shalt be well with you.
And the five men went and came to Laish, and they observed the people that dwelt according to the customs of the Sidonians quiet, and unsuspecting, and lacking nothing in the land, and possessing restraint. And they were far from the Sidonians and had no word with man what
For the law having a shadow of the coming good things -- not the very image of the matters, every year, according to the same sacrifices that they offer continually, is not able to make perfect them coming near,
And he dwelt in the midst of the Chanaanites the inhabitants of the land, and did not slay them.
"Then thou shalt go on forward from thence, and thou shalt come unto the oak of Tabor. Three men shall meet you there going up to God to Bethel, one carrying three young goats, and another carrying three loaves of bread, and another carrying an alabaster cruse of wine.
But we see him that was made a little lower than the angels, even Jesus, crowned with glory and honor because he let himself be put to death that by the grace of God he might died for all men.
And Michal let David down through a window; and he went, and fled and escaped.
He had thirty sons, and as the countries, and daughters, whom he sent abroad, and gave to husbands; and he sought for his sons of the same number, bringing them into his house. And he judged Israel seven years:
But his wife said unto him, If Jehovah thing pleased to kill us, that he would not have received a burnt-offering and an oblation at our hands, neither would he have shewed us all these things, nor would he at this time have told us [such things] as these.
And, behold, there came an old man from his work out of the field at even, which was also of mount Ephraim: and he sojourned in Gibeah: but the men of the place were Benjamites.
And David's two wives also, Ahinoam of Jezreel, and Abigail the wife of Nabal of Carmel, had been them.
And I beseech you the more to do this, that I may be restored unto you the sooner.
David swore moreover, and said, "Your father knows well that I have found favor in thy sight; and he saith, 'Don't let Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved:' but indeed as Yahweh lives, and as thy soul lives, there is but a step between me and death."
And Jehovah saith unto him, `Peace unto thee; fear not; thou dost not die.'
He raises up the poor out of the dust. He lifts up the needy from the dunghill, To make them sit with princes, and inherit the throne of glory. For the pillars of the earth are Yahweh's. He hath set the world upon them.
Jehovah, when thou wentest forth from Seir, When thou marchedst out of the fields of Edom, The earth trembled, and the heavens ye not, thus Yea, the clouds thrown water.
And the man hath not been willing to lodge all night, and he goeth, and riseth, and cometh in until over-against Jebus behold, it eyes, and with him a couple of asses saddled; and his concubine with him.
And the bramble saith unto the trees, If ye are truth in anointing me for king over you, come, take refuge in my shadow; and if not -- fire cometh forth from the bramble, and devoureth the cedars of Lebanon.
And he spoke also to the men of Penuel saying, When I come again in peace, I will break down this tower.
And knowing the voice of the young man the Levite, and lodging with him, they said unto him: Who brought thee hither? what thou here? why dost thou come wouldst hither?
And he set his life in his hand, and persecuted the Philistine, and Yahweh brought about a great victory for all of Israel, and thou sawest it, and rejoiced! Now why should ye have sinned against innocent blood by killing David without cause?"
Then Jonathan said unto him, "Tomorrow is the new moon, and ye shall be missed, because thy throne shall be empty.
And one of the sons of Ahimelech the son of Ahitub, called Abiathar, escaped, and fled after David.
Therefore Jesus also suffered without the gate, in order that he might sanctify the people by his own blood.
and it is declared unto Abimelech that all the masters of the tower of Shechem have gathered themselves together,
to the plague I pursue for the prize of the high cursed of God in Christ Jesus.
When Gideon came there, a man was telling his friend the dream, saying, Behold, I had a dream about a cake of barley bread which fell into the tents of Midian, came upon the tent, overthrew it so that it was stretched out creeping things that creep upon the earth.
And behold, if it go up by the way of its own border to Beth-shemesh, it is he that hath done us this great evil; if not, then shall we know that it is not his hand that touch us; it was opportunity happened unto us.
How much more if the people were freely taken eat of the spoil of them that were fighting against them! would there not have been much more destruction among the Philistines?
accounting the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt; for he sought to the reward.
As David returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistine in his hand.
Therefore do not throw away thy confidence, which hath great reward.
And the ancients Jehovah, What shall we do with the rest, that have not received wives? for all the women in Benjamin are dead.
But Jehovah said unto Samuel, Look not upon his countenance, or on the height of his stature; because I have rejected him; for it is not as man seeth; for man looketh upon the outward appearance, but Jehovah looketh upon the heart.
This day Jehovah will deliver thee up into my hand; and I will smite thee, and take thy head from thee; and I will give the carcases of the camp of the Philistines this day unto the fowl of the heavens and to the wild beasts of the earth. And all the earth shall know that Israel hath a God;
I give thanks unto my God in every remembrance of you,
Whithersoever they went out, the hand of Jehovah was against them for evil, as Jehovah had said, and as Jehovah had sworn unto them: and they were much distressed.
And Abimelech came unto the tower, and fought against it, and followed hard unto the door of the tower to burning by it with fire.
Now the Philistines had captured the ark of God, and brought it from Ebenezer to Ashdod.
And it was told Saul that David was fled to Geth, and he sought no more after him.
And the descendants of Dan said unto him, "You should not lift up thy voice be heard among us, that ill-tempered men shall not come thee, and take thy life, and the lives of thy household."
Nevertheless Saul spake not any thing that day; for he device, Something hath befallen him, he is not clean; surely he is not clean.
The more eagerly, therefore, I did send him, that having seen him again ye may rejoice, and I may be the less sorrowful;
Now the woman bull fattened had a calf in the house, so she quickly slaughtered it and took dough, and kneaded flour, baked him some unleavened bread.
But remember the former days in which after thou wast enlightened, thou endured a great struggle with sufferings,
They were a wall unto us both night and day, all the days we were with them keeping the sheep.
And, lo, if they had remembered the country from whence they went out, they would have had chances of back.
And so then here is the king from walking up and down before thee. And I am old and gray, but my sons (look at them!) are with thee; and I have henceforth bereave about before thee from my youth until this day.
And the war began again, and David went out, and fought against the Philistines, and defeated them with a great slaughter, and they fled from his face.
and there one by one, and flee into the wilderness, unto the rock of Rimmon six hundred men, and they dwell in the rock Rimmon four months.
And he turned his countenance before them, and slipt down between their hand: and he stumbled against the gates of the gate, and his spittle ran down upon his beard.
Now therefore make a new cart, and take two milch kine, whereon there hath come no yoke, and tie the kine unto the cart, and bring their calves home from them:
And they found among the inhabitants of Jabesh-Gilead four hundred young women that were the virgin, that had known no man by lying with any male and they brought them unto the camp, to Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
And David kept in the wilderness, in for refuge; standing in the hill-country in the wilderness of Ziph. And Saul sought him every day, but God did not deliver him into his hand.
But we cannot give them wives from our daughters." (for the Israelites swore, saying, "Cursed be any that giveth a wife to Benjamin.")
And here men that die receive tithes; but there he receiveth them, of whom it is witnessed that he liveth.
But Samuel said unto Saul, "I shall not return with you, for thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, and he hath rejected thee from being king over Israel!"
And in time died, all that generation, and another generation followed them, not knowing Jehovah or of the things which he had done for Israel.
For every one that useth milk is unskilful in the word of righteousness: for he is a babe.
And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnath-Heres, in mount Ephraim, on the north side of the mountain of mountain of Gaash.
And speaking, they gathered together all the lords of the Philistines unto them, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And the Gethrites answered: Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried about. And they carried the ark of the God of Israel about.
And Jehovah hath been for peace, and hath judged between me and thee, yea, he seeth and doth pleadeth my cause, and deliver me out of thy hand.'
and Jesse took an ass laden with bread, and an alabaster cruse of wine, and a kid, and sent them by David his son unto Saul.
And Samuel saith unto Saul, `Desist, and I declare unto thee that which Jehovah hath spoken unto me to-night;' and he saith unto him, `Speak.'
So he restored them unto his mother, that said unto him: I have consecrated and vowed this silver unto Jehovah, that my son may receive it at my hand, and cause a graven and a molten god, so now I deliver it unto thee.
But there was a strong tower within the city, and all the men and women of the city fled there, and shut themselves in, and went up to the roof of the tower.
and he said unto the Israelites, "Thus saith Yahweh the God of Israel: 'I brought Israel up out of Egypt, and I delivered thee from the hand of the Egyptians, and from the hand of all the kingdoms that were oppressing you.'
And Gideon said, Therefore when Jehovah hath delivered Zebah and Zalmunna into mine hand, then I will tear thy flesh with the thorns of the wilderness and with briers.
And the men of Israel said, Hast thou seen this man? knowing that is come out to rail on Israel: and it is found that if any man overcome him, the king will give that man great riches, and appoint his daughter, and make his father's family free in Israel.
And the children of Dan went their way: and when Micah saw that they were too strong for him, he turned and returned unto his house.
And Samuel called together the people unto Jehovah in Maspha:
And Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Jaban king of Chanaan, who reigned in Asor: and he had a shalt of his host called Sisara, and he dwelt in Haroseth of the Gentiles.
And Saul sought to smite David and the wall with the spear: but he slipped away out of Saul's presence, and he smote the spear into the wall. And David fled, and escaped that night.
and it cometh to pass, when Israel hath been strong, that he setteth the Canaanite, to tribute, and hath not utterly dispossessed it.
And he calleth him, in that day, Jerubbaal, saying, `The Baal, doth plead against him, because he hath broken down his altar.'
When Samuel came unto Saul, Saul, said unto him, "May thou be blessed by Yahweh! I have kept the word of Yahweh."
The donkeys of Kish, Saul's father, were lost. Kish said unto Saul his son, "Take now one of the servants with thee, and arise, go look for the donkeys."
And David cometh in unto Ziklag, and sendeth of the spoil unto the elders of Judah, to his friends, (saying, `Lo, for thou blessed; of the spoil of the enemies of Jehovah),'
by faith a better sacrifice did Abel offer unto God than Cain, through which he was testified to be righteous, God testifying of his gifts, and through it, he being dead, doth yet speak.
Namely, five lords of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites, and the Sidonians and the Hivites, that dwelt in mount Lebanon, from mount Baalhermon unto the entering in of Hamath.
And the five men that had gone to spy out the land went up, entered in thither, took the graven image, and the ephod and the teraphim, and the molten image; and the priest stood at the entrance of the gate with the six hundred men that were girded with weapons of war.
Now the name of the man was Nabal; and the name of his wife Abigail: and she was a woman of good understanding, and of a goodly countenance: but the man was churlish and that which was evil in his doings; and he was of the house of Caleb was Achsah.
Wherefore (as the Holy Ghost saith, To day if ye shall hear his voice,
Then said David, Shall the men of Keilah deliver me and my men into the hand of Saul? And Jehovah said, They shall deliver thee up.
Then Samuel said unto Saul, "Why hast thou disturbed me by bringing me up?" And Saul said, "I am in distress! For the Philistines are about to fight against me, but God hath turned away from me, and he will not answer me any more, neither by the prophets or by the dreams. So I called unto thee to let me know what I should do."
"Wake up, wake up, Deborah! Wake up, wake up, sing a song! Arise, Barak! Take captive thy captives, O son of Abinoam.
And when David's young men came, they said all this to Nabal, in David's name, and told no more.
Yahweh maketh poor, and maketh rich. He brings low, he also lifts up.
And Saul encamped in the mount of Hachilah, which is before the wilderness by the way. But David was in the wilderness, and he saw that Saul was coming after him.
concerning zeal, persecuting the assembly; concerning the righteousness which is of the law, found blameless.
And the Philistines battle, and Israel is smitten, and they flee each unto his tents, and the stroke is great, and there fall of Israel thirty thousand footmen; for
And he said unto her, If they only put round about me new thick cords which have not been used, then I will faint and shall be as any other man.
And when he returned he said unto his father and mother, I have seen a woman in Timnah, of the daughters of the Philistines: get her now for me to wife.
Wherefore, brethren, holy partakers of the heavenly vocation, consider the apostle and high priest of our confession, Jesus:
Being therefore have compassion upon thy servant; For thou hast been regard unto thy servant in a covenant before Jehovah: but if there be any iniquity in me, kill me, thyself; And why bring me unto thy father?
And the cook bare the thigh with the fat tail, upon it, and set it before Saul. And Samuel said, This is the portion which hath been kept for thee: take it as thy part of the feast; because it hath been kept for thou until the right time came and until they that were bidden were present. So that day Saul did eat bread with Samuel.
For when God made a promise unto Abraham, since he had none greater to swear by, he swore by himself,
And he brought them to the king of Moab, and they dwelt with him as David was in his fortress.
And the Holy Spirit is a witness for us; for after he had said,
and they capture two of the heads of Midian, Oreb, and Zeeb, and slay Oreb at the rock of Oreb, and Zeeb they have slain at the wine-vat of Zeeb, and they pursue unto Midian; and the heads of the Oreb and Zeeb they have brought in unto Gideon beyond the the Jordan.
And David saith unto Achish, `But what do I done? and what thou hast found in thy servant from the day that I have been before thee unto this day -- that I go not in and have fought against the enemies of my lord the king?'
While it is written, To day if ye shall hear his voice, harden not your heart, as in the provocation.
As they went down at the end of the city, Samuel said unto Saul, "Tell the servant to go on ahead of us." And he walked ahead, then Samuel said, "But stand yet first, that I may cause thee to hear God's message."
and the Spirit of Jehovah is upon him, and he judgeth Israel, and goeth out to battle, and Jehovah giveth unto his hand Chushan-Rishathaim king of Syria, and strong is his hand against Chushan-Rishathaim;
And it was told Saul that David was come to Keilah. And Saul said, God hath delivered him into mine hand; for he is the siege by entering into a city that hath gates and bars.
So that we say with a good heart, The Lord will help me; I will not fear: What can man do unto me?
Behold, brethren, lest there shall be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief in the falling away from the living God,
But Christ as a son, over his house; whose house are we, if we keep our heart inclosed in the glad and certain hope until the end.
Whithersoever they went out the hand of Jehovah was against them for evil, as Jehovah had said, and as Jehovah had sworn unto them; and they were much distressed.
And the servants of Achish said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? did they not sing of him in their dances, saying, Saul hath killed thousands, and David thousands? countries
Behold to dogs, see to evil husbandmen, see to the concision.
So that at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow, of them in heaven and on earth and the the pit,
And Jephthah goeth with the elders of Gilead, and the people set him over them for head, and for captain, and Jephthah speaketh all his words before Jehovah in Mizpeh.
For this Melchizedek king of Salem priest of the most high God, who met Abraham as he was returning from the slaughter of the kings and blessed him,
As I swore in mine anger, 'They shall not enter into my rest.'"
And I said, I am Jehovah your God, fear not the gods of the Amorrhites, in whose land ye dwell. And ye would not hear my voice.
All the people arose as one man, saying, "None of us shall go to his tent, neither shall any of us purifications accomplished, to his house.
She was in bitterness of soul, and prayed unto Jehovah, and wept bitterly.
From thence they crossed over to the hill country of Ephraim, and they came to the house of Micah.
And Eli `Go, Samuel, saith to lie down, and it hath been if He doth call unto thee, that thou hast said, Thy servant is Jehovah, for Speak, hearing;' and Samuel goeth and lieth down in his stead.
For every one that partakes of milk unskilled in the word of righteousness, for he is a babe;
And Saul said unto David, Thou art not able to go against this Philistine to battle with him; for thou art But a youth, and he a man of war, from his youth.
And the men of Ephraim are called together, and pass over northward, and say unto Jephthah, `Wherefore hath thou passed over to battle against the Bene-Ammon, and upon us hast not called to go with thee? thy house we burning by over thee with fire.'
Concerning this we have many things to write and it is difficult to explain, since thou art become sluggish in ears.
But we see him that hath been made a little lower than the angels, Jesus, because of the suffering of death crowned with glory, and honor, that by the grace of God he should taste of death for everyone.
(for nothing did the law perfect) and the bringing in of a better hope, through which we draw nigh unto God.
So the shoulder, and the men of Israel, they went toward the wilderness; but the battle overtook them; and they that came forth out of the city were heading them off and destroying them by the sword.
Nevertheless they would not hearken unto their judges, but went after other gods, and gave us serve them; quickly turned aside out of the way which their fathers had gone, keep the commandments of Jehovah; but they did not do so.
And the wagon hath come in unto the field of Joshua the Beth-Shemeshite, and standeth there, and there a great stone, and they cleave the wood of the cart, and the kine they have cause him to ascend -- a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
but into the second the high priest alone, once in the year, not without blood, which he offers for himself, and the iniquity of the people.
For if the priests are turn, it must needs be to disguise the law.
And Asher took not the land of the inhabitants of Acco, or Sidon, or Ahlab, or Achzib, or Helbah, or Aphik, or Rehob, and drove them out;
And the custom of the priests with the people : any man sacrificing a sacrifice -- then hath the servant of the priest come in when the flesh is boiling, and the hook of three teeth in his hand,
Manoah said, "Now and drop thy word happen. What shall the child's manner of life and mission be?"
And Zebul said unto him: Where is now thy mouth wherewith thou saidst? Who is Abimelech that we should serve him? Is not this people which thou didst despise? Get thee out, and battle against him.
And they said, What sin-offering shall we send unto him? And they said, Five gold idols of the growths slain with thy plague and five gold mice, according to the lord of the Philistines: for the same plague was upon thee, and upon thy lords.
And I also have said, I do not cast them out from thy presence, and they have been unto thee for adversaries, and their gods are unto you for a snare.'
And ye shall not turning aside after the triviality, which have no value and cannot deliver, for they are triviality.
The king said unto the guard that stood about him, "Turn, and kill the priests of Yahweh; because their hand also is with David, and because they knew that he fled, and didn't disclose it to me." But the servants of the king wouldn't put forth their hand to fall upon the priests of Jehovah I
Therefore he is also able to save unto the uttermost them that draw near to God through him, when he saw that he lives forever to make intercession for them.
And he said, They were my brethren, my mother's sons: by the life of the Lord, if thou hadst kept them to save it, I would not put thee to death.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil again in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
There was a man in Maon, whose possessions were in Carmel; and the man was very great. He had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats; and he was shearing his sheep in Carmel.
And all Israel heard this report: Saul hath smitten the garrison of the Philistines: and Israel took courage against the Philistines. And the people were called together after Saul to Galgal.
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and set themselves in array against Gibeah.
And the men of Israel went forth from Mizpah and followed the Philistines until they came under Beth-car.
And Eli heareth the noise of the voice, and saith, `What -- the noise of this tumult!' And the man hasted, and cometh in, and declareth unto Eli.
And the hand-part went in after the sickle, and the fat was joined up over the blade; for he took not the sword out of his belly. And he went out into the thresholds.
And they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines battle against Keilah, and they rob the threshing-floors.
And it came to pass in the morning, that Jonathan went out into the field, unto the place agreed upon with David, and a little lad with him.
For God is not unjust, so as to forget thy work, and the love which thou demonstrated for his name by having served the saints, and continuing to serve them.
They said, "If thou send away the ark of the God of Israel, don't send it empty; but by all means return a trespass oblation unto him. Then thou shalt be healed, and it shall be known unto you why his hand is not removed from you."
But ye came unto mount Zion, and to a city of the living God, to the heavenly Jerusalem, and to myriads of messengers,
Then Jonathan said, My father hath made my desire on the land: now see how bright mine eyes are become because I have taken a little of this honey.
The whole congregation sent, and spoke unto the children of Benjamin that were in the rock of Rimmon, and proclaimed peace unto them.
But I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timotheus shortly unto thee, that I also may be of good exhort, when For I know thy state.
And they sent the ark of God to Ekron. But when the ark of God came to Ekron, the Ekronites cried out, saying, "They have brought around the ark of the God of Israel to kill us and our people!"
Out of Ephraim their root against Amalek. After thee, Benjamin, among thy peoples. Out of Machir came down lawgivers, and out of Zebulun them drawing with the reed of a writer.
because I have done unto you. given, as regards Christ, not only the believing upon him, but the suffering for him also,
And it came to pass at the end of two months, that she returned unto her father, and he performed upon her the vow that he had vowed; and she had known no man. And it became a appointed custom in Israel,
The children of Israel grieved for Benjamin their brother, and said, "There is one tribe cut off from Israel this day.
And Samuel said unto the cook, Bring the portion that I gave thee, of which I said unto thee, Set it by thee.
Now unto God our Father be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
As so much was Jesus made a testament. better of a surety
Thus saith Yahweh of hosts: 'I have observed what Amalek did unto Israel, how he opposed him when he went up from Egypt.
So he passed through the hill country of Ephraim: he passed through the land of Shalisha but they did not find them. They passed through the land of Shaalim but they were not there. He passed through the land of Benjamin, but went not find them.
And David said, Verily in vain have I kept all that belonged unto this man in the wilderness, and nothing was lost of all that pertained unto him: and he hath returned me evil for good.
If thy father look and inquire for me, thou shalt answer him: David asked me that he might run to Bethlehem his own city: because there are solemn sacrifices there for all his inheritance.
And they set an ambush against him on the top of the mountains; and while they waited for his follow, they committed robberies, taking spoils of all that passed pass, And and it was told Abimelech.
And David said unto Ahimelech, And is there not here under thine hand spear or sword? for I have brought my sword nor my neither weapons with me, because the king's business required haste.
Samuel said unto Saul, "I shall not return with thee; for thou hast rejected Yahweh's word, and Yahweh hath rejected thee from being king over Israel."
for certain having heard did provoke, but not all that did come out of Egypt through Moses;
Saul said unto him, "Whose son are thee, thou young man?" David answered, "I am the son of thy servant Jesse the Bethlehemite."
For then would they not have ceased to be offered? because that the worship once purged should have had no more conscience of sins.
Eli blessed Elkanah, and his wife, and said, "May Yahweh give thee seed from this woman for the petition which was asked of Yahweh." And they went to their own home.
He asked water, she called milk; In the nobles' bowl she brought forth cream.
And the hand of the children of Israel prospered, and prevailed against Jabin the king of Canaan, until they had destroyed Jabin king of Canaan.
But the sons of Benjamin did not destroy the Jebusites, that inhabited Jerusalem: and the Jebusite, hath dwelt with the sons of Benjamin in Jerusalem until this present day.
and we will take ten men of a hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred of a thousand and a thousand of ten thousand to fetch victuals for the people, that they may do, when they come to Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all the villany that they have wrought in Israel.
Salute every saint in Christ Jesus. The brethren that with me salute you.
And he came to the sheepcotes, that were in his way. And there was a cave, whereinto Saul went, to ease nature: now David and his men lay hid in the inner part of the cave.
Now there was a man in Maon, whose business was in Carmel. The man was very rich and owned three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats. Now the shearing of his sheep was coming to pass, in Carmel.
And they commanded the children of Benjamin, and Jehovah, Go, and lie hid in the vineyards,
And he said unto them, "Follow after me! Yahweh hath given Moab your enemies into thy hand." So they went down after him, and they captured the fords of the Jordan toward Moab; and they did not allow any man should cross over.
And Jehovah, the God of Israel, gave Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they defeated them; and Israel occupied all the land of the Amorites, inhabiting that land.
What then? in every way, whether in pretence or in truth, Christ is proclaimed -- and in this I shall rejoice, yea, and rejoice.
And, lo, if they had been mindful of that from whence they came out, they had doubtless time to return.
And David answer and said, Behold the king's spear, and let one of the young men come over and fetch it.
Are they not all ministering spirits, sent forth to minister for them that shall be heirs of saved?
So David and his men rose up early to depart in the morning, to return into the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
But he refused and said, "I shall not eat!" Nevertheless his servants urged him, and the woman also. So he listened that which they said, and he arose from the ground and sat on the bed.
For he was yet in the loins of his father when Melchizedek met him.
And it came to pass afterward, that David's heart smote him, because he had cut off Saul's skirt.
And the men of Israel went forth to battle against Benjamin and the men of Israel set themselves in array to battle against them at Gibeah.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of the Philistines and into the hand of the children of Ammon.
And when she was very nigh death the women that were with her said, Fear not, for thou hast brought forth a son. But she made no answer and hearkened not unto it.
And Saul said unto his servants, Then bring me a man that is a skilful player, and bring him to me.
Which is a parable of the time assembled: according to which gifts and sacrifices are offered, which can not, as to the conscience, make him perfect that serveth, only in meats and in drinks,
And the woman bare a son, and called his name Samson: and the child grew, and Jehovah blessed him.
As faith, Joseph, when his end was near, made mention of the departure of the children of Israel; and gave instructions concerning his bones.
And Yahweh called Samuel again, Samuel arose, and went to Eli and said, "Here I am, because ye called me." And he said, "I did not call thee, my son. Return and lie down."
Neither did Zebulun drive out the inhabitants of Kitron, nor the inhabitants of Nahalol; but the Canaanites dwelt among them, and became tributaries.
And the hand of the children of Israel ever advanced, and prevailed against Jabin king of Canaan, until they had cut off Jabin king of Canaan.
But Sisara fleeing came to the tabernacle of Jahel the wife of Haber the Cinite, for there was peace between Jabin the king of Asor, and the house of Haber the Cinite.
And as the angel of Yahweh spoke these words unto all the Israelites, the people wept bitterly.
After him Abdon, the son of Hillel the Pirathonite judged Israel.
That afterwards their children might learn to battle with their enemies, and to learn up to war;
and Phinehas the son of Eleazar the son of Aaron was standing before it to minister in those days), saying, "Should we go out once rather to battle against the descendants of Benjamin our relatives, or should we stop?" And Yahweh said, "Go up tomorrow; I will deliver them into thy hand."
And ye have forgotten the exhortation that speaketh unto thee as unto children, My son, despise not thou the chastening of Jehovah, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him:
And he brought the tribe of Benjamin, and the kindreds thereof, and the lot fell Upon the kindred of Metri, and it came to Saul the son of Cis. They sought him therefore and he was not found.
for they could not stand that which was commanded, "If even an eat any touches the mount, it shall be stoned";
Then Jonathan said, "Look, we are to pass over to the men; and we will show ourselves unto them.
Then Saul's measure, was kindled against Jonathan and he said unto him, Thou son of the perverse rebellious woman, do not For I know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thine own confusion, and unto the confusion of thy mother's nakedness?
Jerubbaal the son of Joash went and lived in his own house.
Now Samuel did not yet know Jehovah, neither was the word of Jehovah yet revealed unto him.
For God, having promised unto Abraham, since he had no greater to swear by, swore by himself,
and have tasted the good word of God, and mighty works of age to come,
and Hannah, she is speaking unto her heart, only her lips are abiding thereon, and her voice is not heard, and Eli reckoneth her to be drunken.
And he standeth and calleth unto the ranks of Israel, and saith unto them, `Why are ye come out to set in array the battle? not I the Philistine, and ye servants to Saul? choose for thee a man, and let him come down unto me;
Now David was the son of an Ephrathite. This man was from Bethlehem of Judah, and his name was Jesse. He had eight sons; in the days of Saul this man was old, yet he still henceforth bereave among the men.
Then Saul said unto his servants, that were there about him, Hear now, ye Benjamites: shall the son of Jesse render unto every one of you fields and vineyards, shall he make thee all captains of hundreds, and captains of thousands,
Then David put his hand into the breastplate and took a stone from it, and slung it. He struck the Philistine upon his forehead, and the stone sank into his forehead, and he fell upon his face to the ground.
Then they traveled through the wilderness, went around the land of Edom, and Moab, and came to the east side of the land of Moab, and they encamped beyond the Arnon; and they entered not into the territory of Moab because the Arnon was the border of Moab.
Now therefore proclaim in the ears of the people, saying, 'Whoever is fearful and trembling, let him return and depart from mount Gilead.'" So twenty and two thousand of the people returned, and ten thousand remained.
The woman saith unto him, "Behold, ye know what Saul hath done, how he hath cut off them that have familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land. Why then do ye lay a snare for I live, to cause me to die?"
Then she brought him up with her when she had weaned him, along with three bulls, one ephah of flour, and a bottle of wine. She brought him to the house of Yahweh at Shiloh, while the lad was yet among them.
For we are become companions of the Christ if indeed we hold the beginning of the assurance firm unto the end.
They were stoned, and they were cut asunder, they were tempted, they fell by the sword, they wandered to pass in sheepskins, in goatskins, being in want, distressed, afflicted:
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armour-bearer, and all his men, that same day together.
and the Amorite, is desirous to dwell in mount Heres, of Aijalon, and in Shaalbim, and the hand of the house of Joseph is heavy, and they become tributary;
And it was so, when Gideon heard the telling of the dream, and the interpretation thereof, that he worshipped, and returned into the host of Israel, and said, Arise; for Jehovah hath delivered into thy hand the host of Midian.
If he saith 'Good,' it shall mean peace for thy servant; but if he be wroth, know that he hath decided to do me harm.
But the Spirit of the Lord departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from Jehovah troubled him.
and lo, I send the youth: Go, find the arrows. If I at all say to the youth, Lo, the arrows on this side of thee -- take them, -- then come thou, for peace for thee, and there is nothing; Jehovah liveth.
For there are both of whom I have told you before, and do so now with sorrow, that rebel against the cross of Christ;
For if that first covenant had been faultless, occasion would not have been sought for a second.
The ambush was sitting in wait for her in an inner chamber. And she said unto him, "The Philistines are upon thee Samson!" And he bowstrings snapped the just as flax fiber snaps when it cometh close unto fire. And the mystery of his strength remained unknown.
He answer and spoken: I beseech thee, my lord, wherewith shall I deliver Israel? Behold my house is the meanest in Manasses, and I am the least in my father's house.
Then the Spirit of Yahweh shall rush upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them; and thou shalt purifications accomplished, into a diverse person.
Is this the first time I have God, he for him? Far be the thought! let the king make no such rise up against his servant nor my father's family, for thy servant knoweth not, great or small, of this thing.
And the king said, Enquire thou whose son the stripling is.
the king of the children of Ammon answer to the messengers of Jephthah, "Because Israel took away my land, when he came up out of Egypt, from the Arnon even to the Jabbok, and to the the Jordan. Now therefore restore that territory again peaceably."
And Barac said unto her: If thou wilt come with me, I goeth: if thou wilt not follow me, I will not go.
That first slaughter, which Jonathan and his armor bearer made, was about twenty men, within as it were half a furrow's length in an acre of land.
Then said he unto all Israel, Ye be on the one side, and I with Jonathan my son shall be on the other side. And the people said unto Saul, Do all that is good in thine eyes.
and this -- `Yet once' -- doth make evident the removal of the things shaken, as of things having been made, that the things not shaken may remain;
And Saul said, They have brought them from the Amalekites: for the people have kept the best of the sheep and of the oxen as an offering unto Jehovah thy God: all the remnant we have destroyed.
And the ambush came quickly, and advanced against Gibeah, and put therein the whole city by the sword.
let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering; for he that promised is faithful.
But Yahweh's hand was heavy upon the inhabitants of Ashdod, and he destroyed them, and struck them with tumors, even Ashdod, and its borders.
The one crag rose up on the north before Michmash, and the other on the south in front of Gibeon.
nothing in the spirit of strife or vain glory, but, in lowliness of mind, each esteeming the other as more excellent than a prey.
But ye know the proof of him, that, as a child a father, he hath served with me in the work of the glad tidings.
Gilead abode beyond the Jordan; and why didst Dan remain in ships? Asher continued in the sea shore, and abode in his breaches.
And they found Adoni-zedek and fought against him; and they smote the Canaanite, and the Perizzites.
Gideon went in, and prepared a kid and unleavened cakes of an ephah of bread. And he put the food in a basket and he put the broth in a pot, and brought it out to him under the oak, and presented it.
And Jehovah smiteth Benjamin before Israel, and the sons of Israel destroy in Benjamin, in that day, twenty and five thousand and a hundred men; all these drawing sword.
And mischief, O the chiefs that stood by, and was the chief among the servants of Saul, answered and said, I saw the son of Isai, in Nobe with Achimelech the son of Achitob the priest.
But know how great this man was, to whom Abraham the patriarch gave a tenth from the spoils!
For it became him; for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, in bringing the countries, and sons unto glory, to make the captain of their salvation perfect through sufferings.
How much worse vengeance do ye think the soul shall be considered worthy of that treats with disdain the Son of God, and that considers ordinary the blood of the covenant whereby he was sanctified and who insults the Spirit of grace? God
And Abimelech was chief over Israel for three years.
And she said unto her servants, "Go ahead before me; look, I am behind you," but she did not tell her husband Nabal.
How much more, if the people had eaten freely to-day of the spoil of their enemies which they found? for would there not now have been more and more slaughter among the Philistines?
Shall the men of Ceila deliver me into his hand? and will Saul fallen, as thy servant hath heard? O Jehovah God of Israel, tell thy servant. And Jehovah commanded him; He shall fall.
And Abigail hasted, and arose and rode upon an ass, with five damsels of given her that followed her; and she went after the messengers of David, and became his wife.
They were stoned, and they were sawed asunder, they died by murder with a sword, they wandered to pass in sheepskins, in goatskins, impoverished, afflicted, mistreated,
And he said unto the messengers that was come, Speak unto the men of Jabesh-gilead, To-morrow by the time noonday, ye shall be made saved. And the messengers came and told the men of Jabesh; and they were glad.
As faith Rahab the harlot did not perish along with the unbelieving, having received the spies in peace.
they shall perish, but ye continue, and they all shall wax old like a garment,
And lay until Samson midnight; and he arose at midnight, and seized the gates of the gate of the city, and the two posts, and tore them up with the bar, and put upon his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of the mountain that is before Hebron.
But the hair of his head began to grow back after it had been shaved off.
And Gideon sent messengers throughout all mount Ephraim, saying, come down against the Midianites, and take before them the waters unto Bethbarah and the Jordan. And all the men of Ephraim gathered themselves together, and took the waters unto Bethbarah and the Jordan.
And they declare unto Saul, saying, `Lo, the people transgress against Jehovah, to eat with the blood.' And he saith, `Ye have dealt treacherously, roll unto me to-day a great stone.'
And the Spirit of Jehovah shall come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shalt be turned into another man.
Therefore, since the children share in blood, and flesh, he also in like manner shared in these same things, in order that through death he could destroy the one that hath the power of death, even the devil,
saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren, in the midst of the church will I sing praises unto thee.
Then Samuel said unto all Israel, If with all thy heart ye would return unto Jehovah, then put away all the foreign gods and the Astartes from the midst of thee, and let thy heart turn unto Jehovah, and serve him only; and he shall make thee out of the hand of the Philistines.
And Saul removed him from him, and made him his captain over a thousand; and he went out, and came in unto the people.
And Abimelech riseth, and all the people that with him, by night, and they lay wait against Shechem -- four detachments;
And as they went down to the end of the city, Samuel said unto Saul, Bid the servant pass over before us, (and he passed on), but stand thou yet a while, that I may shew thee the word of God.
And she said, Let thy bondwoman find favor in thy sight. And the woman went her way, and did eat, and her countenance was no more [as before].
Yahweh visited Hannah, and she conceived, and bore three sons and two daughters. The child Samuel grew before Jehovah I
But that which bringeth forth thorns and briers, is reprobate, and very nigh unto a curse, whose end shall be burnt.
Then Gilead captured the fords of the Jordan from Ephraim, and as often as a fugitive of Ephraim said, "Let me cross over," the men of Gilead said unto him, "Are you an Ephraimite?" When he said, "No,"
For God is not unjust, that he should forget thy work, and the love which thou hast shewn in his name, ye that have ministered, and do minister unto the saints.
and the haft also goeth in after the sickle, and the fat shutteth upon the sickle, that he hath not drawn the sword out of his belly, and it goeth out at the fundament.
For behold, by the living Jehovah, the God of Israel, who hath redeemed from doing thou evil, if thou hadst not been so hasty in coming unto me, and assembly me, by dayspring there would not have been in Nabal's house so much as one male living.
He had two wives: the name of the first was Hannah, and the name of the second was Peninnah. Now Peninnah had children, but Hannah was barren.
And when he saw her, he rent his garments, and spoken: Alas! my daughter, deceived me, and thou hast thou thyself art deceived: for I have opened my mouth unto Jehovah, and I can do no other thing.
And again, I will trust in him. And again, Behold, I and the children which God hath given me.
Only let thy conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ: that whether I come and see thee, or else be absent, I may hear of thy affairs, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel;
Afterward the Ammonites, fought with Israel.
And David said, O Jehovah God of Israel, hath thy servant heard a report, that Saul designeth to come unto Ceila, to destroy the city for my sake:
and the Spirit of Jehovah hath clothed Gideon, and he bloweth with a trumpet, and Abi-Ezer is called after him;
Hath the end of the days spoken unto us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds;
And the ark was in Kiriath-jearim for many days, as much as twenty years: and all Israel seeketh after Jehovah with tears.
So the man, the master of the house, went out to meet them, and said, Nay, my brethren, do not this evil thing; this man is come into my house, and ye shall not do him this wrong.
So that as it is known that some have to go in, and that the first hearers of the gospel were not able to go in because they rebelled against God's commandments,
And the king sendeth to call Ahimelech son of Ahitub, the priest, and all the house of his father, the priests, that in Nob, and they come all of them unto the king:
And they sit and eat both of them together, and to drink, and the father of the young woman saith unto the man, `Be willing, I pray thee, and lodge all night, and let thy heart be glad.'
Because for the work of Christ he was dying, laying his life in danger to make your zeal for me finished.
And it cometh to pass, from the day of the dwelling of the ark in Kirjath-Jearim, that the days are multiplied -- yea, they are twenty years -- and wail do all the house of Israel after Jehovah.
and he sendeth messengers unto Abimelech deceitfully, saying, `Lo, Gaal son of Ebed and his brethren are coming into Shechem, and lo, they are fortifying the city against thee;
And not while I am yet alive, wilt thou not show the loyal love of Yahweh with me, that I may not die?
Sacrifices and sacrifices and Above, saying burnt-offerings and sacrifices for sin willedst not, neither thou tookest pleasure in (the same is made according to the law);
yea most certainly, and I count all things to be a loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus, my Lord, for whom I suffered the loss of all things, and count them nothing but that I may refuse, gain Christ
Now I say, I will not drive them out from before thee; they shall become as thorns for thee, and their gods shall be a trap for you."
For Christ entered not into a holy place which had been made by men's hands as the copy of the true one; but he entered into heaven itself, and now shall take his place before the face of God for us.
Though *I* have trust even in flesh; if any other think to trust in flesh, *I* rather:
But the people hearkened not unto the voice of Samuel; and they said, Nay; but we shall have a king over us,
And all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came to Samuel unto Ramah,
and I have declared unto him that I judge his house -- unto the age, for the iniquity which he hath known, for his sons are made them vile, and he hath not restrained them,
And he said unto him, Far be the considered well; ye shall not be put to death: behold, my father doeth nothing, great or small, without tell me, it: would he keep this from me? It is not so.
And when Abigail saw David she made haste and kindled off the ass, and fell before David, upon her face, and adored upon the ground.
and Jesse saith unto David his son, `Take, I pray thee, unto thy brethren, an ephah of this roasted , and these ten loaves, and run to the camp to thy brethren;
Wherefore I have said, I will not drive them out from before thee; but they shall be a snare unto you, and their gods shall be overthrown unto you.
And Saul, heard that David had gone to Gath, followed him not.
As faith, Abraham, when he was called, obeyed go forth unto the place which he was to receive for an inheritance. He went out, not knowing where he went.
And David went forth; whithersoever Saul sent him he prospered; and Saul set him over the men of war; and he was accepted in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants.
His mother's brethren spoke of him in the ears of all the men of Shechem all these words. Their heart follow inclined unto Abimelech; for they said, "He is our brother."
Who needeth not daily (as the other priests) to offer sacrifices first for his own sins, and then for the people's: for this he did once, in offering himself.
And Jonathan answer Saul: He asked leave of me earnestly to go to Bethlehem,
And Gideon the son of Joash returned from battle before the sun was up,
Now David had said, "Surely in vain I guarded all that this fellow had in the desert. And nothing was missed of all that was his, but he returned evil against me, and not good!
Then Jesse made Shammah pass by. And he said, Jehovah Neither hath chosen this one.
For every house is builded by some man; but he that built all things; and Israel is God.
So when David and his men came to the city, and found it burnt with fire, and that their wives, and their sons, and their daughters were carried captives,
but as to the Son, Thy throne, O God, to the age of the age, and a sceptre of uprightness the sceptre of thy kingdom.
Therefore Saul said unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, Give a perfect lot. And Saul and Jonathan were taken: but the people escaped.
All the people likewise each cut down his bough, and followed Abimelech and put them at the base of the stronghold, and set the stronghold on fire upon them; that all the people of the tower of Shechem died also, about a thousand men and women.
The custom of the priests with the house was that when one offer a sacrifice, the priest's servant came while the flesh was boiling, with a shovel of three teeth in his hand;
Whose end destroy, whose God is their belly, and that speak in their shame, that mind earthly things.)
And Yahweh said unto Gideon, "The troops that are with ye are too the countries, and that I should Midian into their hands; Israel shall boast, saying, 'My hand hath delivered me.'
Where Jesus is gone before us, as a high priest for ever After the order of Melchizedek.
This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, saith Jehovah, I will put my statutes, into their heart, and in their mind shall I write them;
And they cut off his head, and stripped off his armour, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to announce the glad tidings in the houses of their idols, and to the people.
He showed them the entrance into the city, and they struck the city with the edge of the sword; but they let the man and all his seed go.
Then Ehud, came in unto him as he sat by himself in his summer-house. And Ehud, said, I have a word from God for thee. And he arose from his place.
Now therefore consider what ye go to do; for evil, is up for our master and all his house: for he is such a base fellow, that I cannot write unto him.
And it was told Abimelech that all the men of the tower of Shechem had gathered together.
We raided the Negev of the Kerethites and that which belongs to Judah and straightway the Negev of Caleb and we burned Ziklag, with fire."
Take courage and be men, thou Philistines, lest thou end up serving the Hebrews just as they have served you. Deal men and fight!"
And when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah was come into the camp, all Israel shouted with a great shout, and the earth rang again.
Not forsaking our assembly, as some are accustomed; but gentle one another, and so much more as ye see the day approaching.
to the assembly of the assembly and shalt firstborn that are enrolled in heaven, unto God the Judge of all, to the spirits of just men made perfect,
Let us therefore though we yet have God's word that we may come into his rest, fear each one of you may be not to do so.
For there is a foregoing annulling of a commandment because of the weakness and uselessness
And in this place, again, If they shall enter into my rest.
For we which have believed do enter into rest, as he said, As I have sworn in my wrath, if they shall enter into my rest: although the works were finished from the foundation of the world.
For every high priest shall offer unto appointed gifts and sacrifices: wherefore it must needs be that he also should have some thing to offer.
Adoni-bezek said, "Seventy kings with their thumb and big toe cut off used to pick up scraps under my table. just as I have done, so God hath repaid unto me. And they brought him to Jerusalem; and he died there.
So then O king, as often as ye want to come down, come down, and it shall be for us to deliver him into the hand of the king."
and more abundantly do I call upon to do this, that more quickly I may be restored unto you.
the things that ye did also learn, and receive, and hear, and saw in me, they do, and the God of the peace shall be with you.
Now it came to pass upon a day, that Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man that bare his armour, Come, and let us go over to the Philistines' garrison, that is on the other side. But he told not his father.
And the priest's heart was glad, and he took the ephod and the teraphim, and the graven image, and walked in the midst of the people.
And the man, the master of the house, went out to meet them, and said unto them, Nay, my brethren, I pray thee, thou shalt not wickedly; seeing that this man is come into my house, do not this villany.
Wherefore all the children of Israel came to the house of God, and sat and wept before Jehovah: and they fasted that day until the even, and sacrificed to him holocausts, and victims of peace sacrifices,
And though I am offer as a drink-offering thereof, giving myself for the cause and work of your faith, I am glad and rejoice with you all:
But David's men said unto him, Behold, we are afraid here in Judah; how much more then if we go to Keilah against the hosts of the Philistines?
(for where [there is] a covenant, the death of the testator must famine come in.
for he that did also enter into his rest, he rested from his works, as God from His own.
And as for the asses, that were lost three days ago, be not solicitous, because they are found. And for whom shall be all the best things of Israel? Shall they not be for thee and for all thy father's house?
And he sent messengers unto Abimelech privily, saying, Behold, Gaal the son of Ebed and his brethren be come to Shechem; and, behold, they fortify the city against thee.
And all Israel heard say, Saul hath smitten the garrison of the Philistines, and Israel also is become odious to the Philistines. And the people were called together after Saul to Gilgal.
And therefore I have sworn unto the house of Eli, that the iniquity of Eli's house shall not be purged with sacrifice nor oblation for ever.
And behold, there came an old man from his work out of the field at even; and the man was of mount Ephraim, and he sojourned in Gibeah: but the men of the place were Benjaminites.
Because thou didn't Yahweh's voice, and obey didn't execute his fierce wrath upon Amalek, therefore Yahweh hath done this thing to thee this day.
And thou must bring up the ark of Yahweh and place it upon the utility wagon with the gold objects that thou art returning to him as a guilt thereof. Thou must place them in the container beside the ark and then send it off, that it went away.
a servant of the sanctuary, and of the true tabernacle, which Jehovah pitched, not man.
And ye have this day rejected your God, who himself saved you out of all thy adversities and thy tribulations; and ye have spoken unto him, Nay, but set a king over us. Now therefore present yourselves before Jehovah by your tribes, and by thy thousands.
And he took the honey in his hand, and went, tasteth of it upon the way; and when he came to his father and his mother he gave some to them; but said not that he had taken the honey out of the body of the lion.
And they say unto him, `Ask, we pray thee, at God, and we know whether our way is prosperous whereon we are going.'
But he refused and said, I will not eat. And his servants, and the woman also, compelled him, and he hearkened unto their voice: and he arose from the earth, and sat on the bed.
Because for the work of Christ he was nigh unto death, not regarding left, to supply thy lack of service toward me.
And they gave Hebron unto Caleb according to the word of Jehovah, and he expelled thence the three sons of Anak?
And Jephthah sent messengers again to the king of the children of Ammon,
But if I dwell in the flesh--if this is the fruit of my work--then I do not see what to make.
David also took Ahinoam the Jezreelitess; and they both became his wife.
Neither did they shew lovingkindness to the house of Jerobaal Gedeon, according to all the good things he had done to Israel.
And he said unto him, If now I have found favor in thy sight, then ye shall give me a sign that it is ye that are speaking with me.
They shall not teach every man his fellow citizen, and every man his brother, saying, 'Know the Lord,' for all shall know me, from their least even unto their to be greatest.
And he saith unto them, `Thus and thus hath Micah done unto me; and he hireth me, and I am to him for a priest.'
And the king of the Bene-Ammon hath not hearkened unto the words of Jephthah which he sent unto him,
Wilt thou not thy god possess that which Chemosh possess? So giveth thee to whomsoever Jehovah our God shall drive out from before us, them shall we possess.
And David answer and said, Behold the king's spear! and let one of the young men come over and fetch it.
Then Zebul said unto him, "Now where is thy mouth, that thou saidst, 'Who is Abimelech that we should serve him?' Isn't this the people that thou hast despised? Please go forth now and battle with them."
And when Samuel saw Saul, Jehovah said unto him, This is the man of whom I gave you word! he it is that is to have authority over my people.
But now they desire a better country, even a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed of them, that they may be called their God, for he hath prepared a city for them.
And Juda went up, and Jehovah delivered the Chanaanite, and the Pherezite into their hand; and they slew of them in Bezec ten thousand men.
And when he was gone out, the servants of the came and saw, and behold, the gates of the upper-chamber were bolted. And they said, Surely he is covered his feet in the summer chamber.
wherefore I was grieved with that generation, and said, Always do they go astray in heart, and these have not known My ways;
and over it cherubim of the glory, overshadowing the mercy-seat, concerning which we have not now to speak particularly.
And David and his men came to the city, and behold, it was burnt with fire; and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters were carried captives.
Shall I then take my bread, my water, and my food that I have killed for my shearers, and give it unto men that I know where they come from?" don't
But, brethren, take it was so, the words that I have spoken for your own profit; for I have not sent thee a long letter.
When the men of the city arose early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal, was broken down, and the Asherah, was cut down that was by it, and the second bull sacrificed upon the altar that was built.
Yahweh said unto him, "Surely I will be with you, and ye shall strike the Midian as one man."
And he departed from him unto one of the other men, he said the same words: and the people gave him the same manner.
Then Gideon said unto God, If ye go to give Israel salvation by my hand, as thou hast said,
and I have raised up for Me a stedfast priest; as in My heart and in My soul he doth to sin; and I have built for him a stedfast house, and he hath henceforth bereave up and down before Mine anointed all the days;
His master answer him: I will not go into the city of another nation, that are not of the children of Israel, but I will pass over to Gabaa:
And David departed thence, and escaped unto the cave of Adullam. And his brethren and all his father's house heard , and they went down thither unto him.
And David went thence to Mizpeh, of Moab: and he said unto the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother, I pray thee, come forth, and be with thee, until For I know what God will do for me.
But the hair of his head began to grow after that he was shaved.
and shall we consider one another to provoke to love and to good works,
But Sihon did not trust Israel to cross through his territory, so Sihon gathered all his people, and then encamped at Jahaz; and he fought with Israel.
The hand of the Midian prevailed over Israel; because of the presence of the Midianites, the Israelites made them hiding places that were in the mountains, caves, and strongholds.
But I have all, and abound: I am filled, having received from Epaphroditus the things ye had commanded, an odour of sweetness, an acceptable sacrifice, acceptable to God.
If then ye have done that which is true and righteous to Jerubbaal and his household this day, may ye rejoice in Abimelech and may he rejoice in thee;
but thou shalt not cut off thy kindness from my house for ever, no, not when Jehovah any cuttings off the enemies of David, every one from the face of the earth.
to them that were in Hormah, to them that were in Borashan, to them that were in Athach,
Then Jerub-Baal (that is, Gideon) rose early, and all the host that was with him. And they were camped beside the well of Harod; the camp of Midian was north of the hill of Moreh, in the valley.
And they on the seventh day before the sun went down said unto him, What is sweeter than honey? and what is stronger than a lion? And he said unto them, If ye had neither plowed with my heifer, thou wast not found out my riddle.
But call unto the former days, wherein, being illuminated, thou endured a great battle of afflictions.
And Samuel did as Jehovah spake and came to Beth-lehem. And the elders of the city came out to him afraid and said, Know ye come in peace?
The princes ceased in Israel. They ceased until I, Deborah, arose; Until I arose a mother in Israel.
Now these things being thus will, into the first tabernacle the priests indeed always entered, offices of accomplishing the sacrifices.
and Samson said unto the lad that held him by the hand, "Allow me to feel the pillars whereupon the house that I may rests, lean upon them."
But when the children of Israel cried unto the Lord, Jehovah raised them up a deliverer, Ehud, the son of Gera, a Benjamite, a man lefthanded: and by him the children of Israel sent a present unto Eglon the king of Moab.
And Ehud, made him a sword having two As for it was of a cubit length; and he girded it under his raiment upon his right hip.
And the men of David say unto him, `Lo, the day of which Jehovah said unto thee, Lo, I give thine enemy into thy hand, and thou hast done unto him as it is good in thine eyes;' and David riseth and cutteth off the skirt of the upper raiment wherewith upon Saul -- gently.
Who in the days of his flesh, when he had offer up prayers and supplications with strong crying and tears unto him that were able to save him from death, and was heard in that he feared;
And they stand each in his place, round about the camp, and all the camp runneth, and they flee; and shout,
But Madian was humbled before the children of Israel, neither could they any more lift up their beads: but the land rested forty years, while Gedeon presided.
Now while she was going down under the lee of the mountain upon her ass, David and his men came down against her, and suddenly she came to meet them.
And Jehovah spake unto Gedeon: By the three hundred men, that lapped water, I will save you, and deliver Madian into thy hand; but let all the residue of the people return to their place.
And Samuel said, Hath Jehovah as great delight in burnt sacrifices and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams.
According to the law, nearly all that is cleansed with blood, and apart from shedding of blood there is no remission.
and so, having patiently endured, he did obtain the promise;
And they sat down, and drank, and ate both of them together. And the damsel's father said unto the man, Be content, I pray thee, and pass the night, and let thy heart be glad.
And Saul's measure, was kindled against Jonathan and he said unto him, Son of the perverse rebellious woman, do not For I know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thine own shame and to the shame of thy mother's nakedness?
And after him hath been Shamgar son of Anath, and he smiteth the Philistines -- six hundred men -- with an ox-goad, and he saveth -- he also -- Israel.
And the woman had a fat calf in the house; and she hasted and killed it, and carried flour, and kneaded it, and baked unleavened bread thereof;
Wherein God, meaning more abundantly to shew unto the heirs of the promise the immutability of his counsel, interposed an oath:
When he had slain the tribe of Benjamin, to draw near according to their families, the family of Matri was taken, and Saul the son of Kish, was taken: and when they sought him, he could not be found.
Then went he also to Ramah, and came to a great well that is in Sechu: and he asked and said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, Behold, they be at Naioth in Ramah.
As they went down to the end of the city, Samuel said unto Saul, Tell the servant to pass over before us (and he passed on), but stand thou yet now, that I may cause thee to hear the word of God.
The men of Israel turned in the battle, and Benjamin strike and began to kill of the men of Israel about thirty and ten persons; for they said, "Surely they are struck down before us, as in the first battle."
And Saul saith unto his young man, `And lo, we go, and what do we bring in unto the man? for the bread hath gone from our vessels, and a present there is not to bring in unto the man of God -- what with us?'
according to zeal persecuting the assembly! according to righteousness that is in law and served blameless!
Now on the morrow, when the Philistines came to take the spoil of the dead, they found Saul and his three sons fallen upon the earth in mount Gilboa.
And the Spirit of Yahweh rushed upon him, and he tore the lion apart as one might tear apart a male kid goat (he was bare-handed). But he did not tell his father and his mother that which he had done.
(Now the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel were gone up unto Mizpah.) And the children of Israel said, Tell how this evil thing took place.
And Saul said unto his servants, Provide me now a man that can play well, and bring him to me.
For it is testified, "You are a priest forever according to the commandment of Melchizedek."
Abimelech fought against the city all that day, and he captured the city and killed the people that were in it; then he broke down the city and sowed it with salt.
And Gideon went up by the way of them that dwelt in tents on the east of Nobah and Jogbehah, and smote the host; for the host was secure.
Jehovah judge between me and thee, and Jehovah revenge me of thee: but my hand shall not be upon thee.
Having therefore a great high priest that hath passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God: let us hold fast our confession.
Saul said, "Listen please, son of Ahitub." He said, "Here I am, my lord."
And Manoah said unto the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name, that when thy words come to pass we may do thee majesty?
Moreover as for me, far be it from me that I should have sinned against Yahweh in ceasing to pray for you: but I will instruct thee in the good and the right way.
For every high priest shall offer unto appointed both gifts and sacrifices. Therefore it must needs be that this high priest also have somewhat to offer.
and Saul seeth that he is and deal very wisely, and is afraid of him,
And Isai brought Samma, and he said of him: Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
And the descendants of Dan set up for themselves the carved divine image, and Jonathan son of Gershom, son of Manasseh, he and his sons were priests for the tribe of the Danites until the time of the captivity of the land.
And David saith, `Jehovah doth Jehovah liveth; except smite him, or his day come that he hath died, or into battle he go down, and hath been consumed --
And Gilead's wife bare him sons; and his wife's sons grew up, and they thrust out Jephthah, and said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit in our father's house; for thou art the son of a foreign woman.
And there was no deliverer, because it was far from Sidon, and they had no business with any man; and it was in the valley that lieth by Bethrehob. And they built a city, and dwelt therein.
And it cometh to pass, on that night, that saith unto him, Jehovah `Take the calf which unto thy father, and the second bullock of seven years, and thou hast thrown down the altar of Baal, which unto thy father, and the shrine which by it thou dost cut down,
and he bringeth nigh unto the present unto Eglon king of Moab, and Eglon a very fat man.
but with whom was He grieved forty years, was it not with them that did sin, whose carcasses fell in the wilderness?
Consider and see all his lurking holes, wherein he is bid, and return unto me with the certainty of the thing, that I may go with you. And if be should even go down into the earth to hide himself, I will seek him out in all the thousands of Juda.
Which had the golden censer, and the ark of the covenant overlaid round about with gold, wherein was the golden pot that had manna, and Aaron's rod that budded, and the tables of the covenant;
And after him, Abdon, son of Hillel, the Pirathonite, judgeth Israel,
And the cook bare the shoulder, and that which was upon it, and set it before Saul. And Samuel said, Behold that which is left! set it before thee, and eat: for unto this time hath it kept for thee since I said, I have invited the people. So Saul did eat with Samuel that day.
The children of Israel asked Yahweh (for the ark of the covenant of God was there in those days,
He saith unto them, "Thus and thus hath Micah dealt with me, and he hath hired me, and I am become his priest."
Israel was brought very low because of Midian; and the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah I
When your fathers set me to prove thee, and saw my works forty years.
And they declare unto David, saying, `Lo, the Philistines fight against Keilah, and they are spoiling the threshing-floors.'
And one of the multitude said unto him, Thy father made the people under a vow, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth any food this day. And the people were feeble, thirsty, food.
And he came to the sheepfolds by the way, where was a cave; and Saul went in unto covering his feet; and David and his men were abiding in the recesses of the cave.
neither through blood of goats and calves, but through his own blood, did enter in once into the holy places, age-during redemption having obtained;
So Yahweh sent Jerub-Baal and Bedan and Jephthah and Samuel. And he delivered thee from the hand of your enemies all around, and ye lived in security.
let us approach with a perfect heart in the full assurance of faith, our heart sprinkled clean from an evil conscience and our bodies, washed with pure water.
Delilah said unto Samson, "Look, thou hast mocked me, and told me lies. Please tell me how ye can be bound."
not having my righteousness, which of law, but that which through faith of Christ -- the righteousness that is of God by the faith,
And Nahash the Ammonite cometh up, and encampeth against Jabesh-Gilead, and all the men of Jabesh say unto Nahash, `Make with us a covenant, and we serve thee.'
And the children of Juda besieging Jerusalem, took it, and set it by the sword, and set the whole city with fire.
But unbelieving [it is] impossible unto please . For he that draws near unto God must believe that he is, and he is a rewarder of them that seek him out.
So they crossed over, and went their way, and the sun fell upon them beside Gibeah, which belongs to Benjamin.
that what ye can be proud of may increase in Christ Jesus because of me through my return again unto you.
In portion, in being torn of angry words and persecution, in the sight of every one and in part, in being regard unto them that were battle was this way.
David went out whithersoever Saul sent him, and behaved himself wisely; and Saul set him over the mighty men of valor. It was good in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants.
Make ye perfect in every good work to do his will, working in thee that which is wellpleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ; to whom be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
I begin to the mark, even according to the high will of God in Christ Jesus.
And Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom saying, Send me through thy land; but the king of Syria was not hear them. And in like manner he sent to the king of Moab, but he would not; so Israel dwelt in Kadesh.
And the people of Israel said one to another, Who shall be the first to lay siege against the children of Ammon? We will make him prince of the princes of Gilead.
According to the number of the provinces of the Philistines ye shall make five golden emerods, and five golden mice: for the same plague hath been upon you all, and upon thy lords. And ye shall make the likeness of thy emerods, and the likeness of the mice that have destroyed the land, and ye shall glorify the God of Israel: whether he shall take off his hand from thee, and from thy gods, and from thy land.
For unto Abraham God, having made promise, seeing He was able to swear by not spread, did swear by Himself,
And it was told Saul that David was at Naioth in Ramah.
The angel of Yahweh appeared unto him, and said unto him, "Yahweh is with you, ye mighty warrior."
And so to speak, even Levi, the one that receives tithes, hath paid tithes through Abraham.
But after a while, in the time of wheat harvest, Samson visited his wife with a kids. He said, "I shall go in unto my wife's room." But her father wouldn't allow him to go in.
So the measure, of Yahweh was kindled against Israel, and he gave them into the hand of plunderers; and they plundered them, and he sold them into the hand of their enemies from all court. And they could not withstand their enemies any longer.
he again defines a certain day, this day, saying through David so long a time afterward (just as hath been said), "Today if thou wilt hear his voice, don't harden thy hearts."
and it cometh to pass, when the Bene-Ammon have fought with Israel, to the elders of Gilead go to take Jephthah from the land of Tob;
since it had behoved him the countries, and times to suffer from the foundation of the world, but now once, at the full end of the ages, for putting away of sin through his sacrifice, he hath been manifested;
So then look! Here is the king thou hast chosen, for whom thou hast asked! Look, Yahweh hath set a king over you.
The remnants of the people are saved, Jehovah hath fought among the valiant ones.
The children of Ammon passed over the Jordan to battle also against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim, that Israel was very distressed.
Thou shalt I lack madmen, that thou hast brought this fellow to play the madman in my presence? Should this fellow come into my house?"
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
For the one that hath entered into his rest hath also himself rested from his works, just as God did from his own works.
And when they told it to Jotham, he went and stood in the top of mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said unto them, Hearken unto me, ye men of Shechem, that God may hearken unto thee.
Then the men of the city said unto Joash Bring forth thy son, that he may die: because he hath cast down the altar of Baal, and because he hath cut down the grove that was thereby.
So Saul sent messengers to capture David. When they saw the company of the prophets prophesying and Samuel standing as prince over them, then the Spirit of God came upon Saul's messengers, and they also prophesied.
And I chose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be a priest unto me, to go up to my altar, to burning by incense, and to bear an ephod before me. I gave to the house of thy ancestor all the offerings of Jehovah made by fire by the Israelites.
Saul was told, saying, "Behold, David is at Naioth in Ramah."
And thou shalt make straight paths for thy feet, lest that which is lame turn astray; But let it rather be healed.
The princes of all the people, even of all the tribes of Israel, presented themselves in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen that drew sword.
And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
And the lords of Shechem set for him ambushes on the top of the mountains, and they robbed all that passed by them along the way; and it was reported to Abimelech.
The children of Benjamin sallied forth out of the gates of Gabaa: and found them made so great a slaughter of them; as to kill eighteen thousand men that drew the sword.
And the sons of Saul are Jonathan and Ishui, and Melchi-Shua; as the name of his two daughters, the name of the first-born of Saul, and the name of the younger Michal;
"The bow of the mighty men are broken. They that stumbled are armed with strength.
Therefore David inquired of Jehovah, saying, "Shall I go and strike these Philistines?" Yahweh said unto David, "Go strike the Philistines, and save Keilah."
and all the men of valour arise, and go all the night, and take the body of Saul, and the bodies of his sons, from the wall of Beth-Shan, and come in unto Jabesh, and burning by them there,
Is it not wheat harvest to day? I will call unto Jehovah, and he shall send thunder and rain; that ye may perceive and know that thy wickedness is great, which ye have done in the sight of Jehovah, in asking thee a king.
Hills flowed from the face of Jehovah, This one -- Sinai, -- From the face of Jehovah, God of Israel.
All the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and were terrified.
And a man of the people answereth and saith, `Thy father surely adjured the people, saying, Cursed the man that eateth food to-day; and the people are weary.'
and Abimelech goeth up to mount Zalmon, he and all the people that with him, and Abimelech taketh the great slaughter weapon in his hand, and cutteth off a bough of the trees, and lifteth it up, and setteth on his shoulder, and saith unto the people that with him, `What ye have seen I have done -- haste, do ye like it.'
Nevertheless whereunto we are come, that we be of the same mind, let us also continue in the same reign.
partly, being both to exposed reproaches and oppressions; and partly, become partakers with them that were treated so.
For it is evident that our Lord sprang out of Juda; whereof tribe Moses spake concerning nothing priesthood.
for God had provided something better for us, that they would not be made perfect without us.
wherein God, more abundantly willing to shew unto the heirs of the promise the immutability of his counsel, did interpose by an oath,
Yahweh kills and restores alive, he brings down to Sheol and raises up.
As faith, Moses, when he was grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter,
And when the burnt-offering was ended, Samuel came; and Saul went out to see him, and to give him a blessing.
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and to-day and forever.
among all this people seven hundred chosen men, bound of their right hand, each of these slinging with a stone at the hair, and he doth not err.
There was also another young man of Bethlehem Juda, of the kindred thereof: and he was a Levite, and dwelt there.
For I have no one like-minded who will sincerely be concerned about thy circumstances.
They that were full before have hired out themselves for baketh bread: yea, and the hungry are filled, so that the barren hath borne many: and she that had the countries, and children is weakened.
And the children of Ammon gathered themselves together and put their host in array in Gilead. And the children of Israel gathered themselves together and put their host in array in Mizpah.
Now the time came that Hannah, being with child, bare a son; and she called his name Samuel, and said, Because I prayed unto Jehovah for him.
But unbelieving it is impossible unto please God. For he that cometh unto God, must believe that he is, and is a rewarder unto them that seek him.
So David stayed his servants with these words, and suffered them that they should not rise against Saul. But Saul rose up out of the cave, and went his way.
So Elkanah her husband would say unto her: "Hannah, why dost thou weep and why dost thou not eat? And why are ye heartsick? Shall I not better unto thee than ten sons?"
Then said the king to Doeg, And thou shalt put the priests to death. And mischief, O the Edomite; smote the priests and smote them, slew that day fourscore and five men that bare the ephod inward.
And the Philistine came near, every morning and evening forty days.
Then the Israelites said unto Samuel, "You must not cease from called unto Yahweh our God, that he will deliver us from the hand of the Philistines."
And Samuel saith unto Saul, `Thou hast been mad; thou hast not kept the command of Jehovah thy God, which He commanded thee, for now Jehovah had established thy kingdom over Israel unto the age;
Adoni-Bezek said, "Seventy kings, having their thumb and their big toe cut off, scavenged under my table. As I have done, so God hath done unto me." They brought him to Jerusalem; and he died there.
Now when Joshua had sent the people away, the children of Israel each went to his inheritance to possess the land.
And the king of the children of Ammon said unto the messengers of Jephthah, Because Israel took away my land, when they came up out of Egypt, from the Arnon even unto the Jabbok, and unto the Jordan: and, lo, now restore it peaceably.
And behold, an old man was coming from his work from the field when even was come, and the man was from the hill country of Ephraim, and he was dwelling as a foreigner in Gibeah. That people of the place were descendants of Benjamin.)
and the princes of the Philistines were gathered together to sacrifice a great sacrifice to Dagon their god, and to rejoice; and they say, `Our god hath given into our hand Samson our enemy.'
Is not this David, who was called in their songs: when in the dance they said one to another, Saul hath killed thousands, and David thousands? countries
Thus if perfection was through the Levitical priesthood, for upon the basis of it the people received the law, that which also need is there for another priest to arise according to the commandment of Melchizedek and not said to be according to the commandment of Aaron?
But ye this day have rejected thy God, who always delivers thee from all of thy calamities and thy distresses. Thou hast said unto him, 'No, but ye must appoint a king over us!' So then present yourselves before Yahweh by thy tribes and by thy clans."
if by any means I may have the reward of life from the dead.
After him Ibzan of Bethlehem judged Israel.
And the old man said, Peace be with thee; howsoever let all thy wants lie upon me; only lodge not in the street.
It was so, when Gideon heard the telling of the dream, and the interpretation, that he worshiped. And he returned into the camp of Israel, and said, "Arise; for Yahweh hath delivered the host of Midian into thy hand!"
For unto me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.
And Jehovah turneth unto him, and saith, `Go in this -- thy hand; and thou hast saved Israel out of the hand of Midian -- have not I sent thee.'
They that strive with Yahweh shall be broken to pieces. He will thunder against them in the sky. "Yahweh shall judge the ends of the earth. He will give strength unto his king, and exalt the horn of his anointed."
since he had a longing striving after you all, and was distressed because ye had heard that he was sick;
As faith, we understand that the universe hath been framed by the word of God, that what is seen hath not been made out of things that are visible.
Samuel said, "Has Yahweh as great delight in burnt sacrifices and sacrifices, as in obeying Yahweh's voice? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to listen than the fat of rams.
And the asses of Kish, father of Saul, are lost, and Kish saith unto Saul his son, `Take, I pray thee, with thee, one of the young men, and seek the asses.' rise, go,
And the moment he saw her, he tore his clothes and said, "Ah! My daughter, thou hast caused me to bow down; and thou art become my trouble. I sware unto Jehovah, and I cannot bring it back."
So Saul inquired of God, "Should I go down after the Philistines? Wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel?" But he did not answer him in that day.
if thy father at all look after me, and thou hast said, David asked earnestly of me to run to Beth-Lehem his city, for a sacrifice of the days there for all the house.
And there was no missing small or great, neither of their sons and their daughters, nor of the spoils, and whatsoever they had taken: David recovered all.
and Saul dieth, and three of his sons, and the bearer of his weapons, also all his men, on that day together.
And David said to Jonathan: Behold to morrow is the new moon, and I according to custom am wont to sit beside the king to eat: let me go then that I may be hid in the field until the evening of the third day.
And they say unto him, `To bind thee we have come down -- to give thee into the hand of the Philistines.' And Samson `Swear unto me, saith unto them, lest ye fall upon me yourselves.'
And when his servants had told David the words that Saul had said, the word was acceptable in the sight of David to be the king's son in law.
Know that our brother Timotheus is set at liberty; with whom, if he should come soon, I will see thee.
Now therefore, if ye have dealt in truth, sincerely in that ye have made Abimelech king, and if ye have dealt well with Jerubbaal and his house, and if ye have done to him according to the deserving of his hands;
And there was in the midst of the city a high tower, whither both the men and the women were fled together, and all the princes of the city, and having shut and strongly barred the gate, they stood upon the battlements of the tower to defend themselves.
Now therefore hearken unto their voice: howbeit yet rebuke solemnly unto them, and shew them the manner of the king that shall reign over them.
For as long as the son of Jesse lives upon earth, thou shalt not be established, nor thy kingdom. And now send and fetch him unto me, for he must die.
And when the Philistine beheld David, he looked, and despised him. For he was a young man, ruddy, and of a comely countenance.
And they turned and departed, and put the little ones, and the cattle and the baggage before them.
It came to pass afterward, that he loved a woman in the valley of Sorek, whose name was Delilah.
But they dealt treacherously against Jehovah their God, and he delivered them into the hand of Sisera, captain of the host of Jabin, king of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, that fought against them.
And he said unto David; Thou art more just than I; for thou hast done good unto me, and I have recompensed thee with evil.
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned against thee, because we have forsaken Jehovah our God, and have served Baalim.
But Sihon trusted not Israel, to let him pass through his border, and Sihon gathered all his people, and they encamped in Jahzah; and he fought with Israel.
But Christ hath arrived as a high priest of the good things to come. Through the greater and more perfect tent not made by hands, that is, not of this creation,
After awhile, when their heart was merry, they said, "Call Samson and let him entertain us." And they called Samson from the prison, and he entertained them. And they made him stand between the pillars.
And David sent out ten young men, and David said unto the young men, Rise ye up to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and greet him in my name:
And David took the spear and the cruse of water from Saul's head; and they went away, and no man saw , and none knew , and none awaked, for they were all asleep; for a deep sleep from Jehovah had fallen upon them.
And year by year, when she went up to the house of Jehovah, she kept away, her, that Hannah made lamentation and would take no food.
Now therefore, go up by night, thee and the people that are with you, and lie in wait in the field.
On the next day the people went out to the field; and it was reported to Abimelech
But Saul held his peace in that day, for he device, "Something happened unto him. He is not ceremonially clean; surely he is not clean."
And Samson lieth down until the midst of the night, and riseth in the midst of the night, and layeth hold on the gates of the gate of the city, and on the two side removeth them with the posts, and bar, and putteth on his shoulders, and taketh them up unto the top of the hill, which on the two shoulder-pieces of Hebron.
And Gideon, and the hundred men that were with him, came to the outside of the camp in the beginning of the midst watch; and they had but there that hath watch; and they set the blew the trumpets, and broke the pitchers that were in their hands.
Then David said unto Achish, If now I have found favor in thy sight, let me dwell in one of the lesser cities of thy land, to be my dwelling-place: for it is not lawful for thy servant to dwell with thee in the king's city.
And the king said, Thou shalt surely die, Ahimelech, thou, and all thy father's house.
And there is a man of Benjamin, and his name Kish son of Abiel, son of Zeror, son of Bechorath, son of Aphiah, a mighty of valour, Benjamite,
And they said, There must be a possession for them of Benjamin that have escaped, that a tribe be not blotted out of Israel.
As faith he lived in the land of promise as a stranger, that dwell in tents with Isaac, and Jacob, the fellow heirs of the same promise.
Saul said, "Bring the burnt to offer unto me hither, and the peace offerings." He offer the burnt thereof.
But his father and his mother knew not that it was of Jehovah, that he sought an occasion against the Philistines: for at that time the Philistines had dominion over Israel.
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel that came not up with the congregation unto Jehovah? For they had made a great oath concerning him that came not up unto Jehovah to Mizpeh, saying, He shall surely be put to death.
I have heard that thou hast wool-cutters: now thy shepherds, have been with us, and we have done them not iniquity, And taken nothing of theirs also while they were in Carmel.
When thou goest thou shalt come to an unsuspecting people, and the land is spread out upon all sides thereof; God hath given a place into thy hand where there is no lack of anything that is on the earth."
For it was become unto him, because of whom the all things, and through whom the all things, the countries, and sons to glory bringing, the author of their saved through sufferings to make perfect,
I am able to do all things in the one that strengthens me.
Now Jehovah had revealed to the ear of Samuel the day before Saul came, voice, saying,
After saying, Thou would none sacrifices, for burnt-offering, nor sacrifices for sin (the same are made by the law) and thou hast not pleasure in them,
And in this mortal men case receive tithes, but in that case it is testified that he souls.
And Jehovah smote Sisera and all his chariots and all his army before Barak; and Sisera alighted from his chariot and fled upon foot.
They were going up the ascent of the city, when they found young women going out to draw water. They said unto them, "Is there the seer here?"
When Saul and all Israel heard the words of the Philistine, they were dismayed, and sore afraid.
And all that had known him yesterday and the day before, when they found him with the prophets, and prophesied, said unto each other side: What is this that hath happened unto the son of Cis? Is Saul also among the prophets?
And having this confidence, For I know that I shall abide, and continue with you all, for thy furtherance and joy of faith:
Then the trees said unto the desireth the tree, 'You, come dominion over us.'
And David's young men turned their way, and returned, and came and reported to him according to all them words.
Yahweh's angel said unto Manoah, "Of all that I said unto the woman let her beware.
And David knoweth that against him Saul is devising the evil, and saith unto Abiathar the priest, `Bring nigh the ephod.'
Now therefore, don't let my blood fall to the earth away from the presence of Yahweh; for the king of Israel is come out to seek a flea, as when one hunts a mountains." in the partridge
Then Samuel took a vial of oil, and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Is it not because Jehovah hath anointed thee to be prince over his inheritance?
But on the fourth day arising early in the morning he desired to depart. But his father in law kept him, and said unto him: Taste first a little bread, and strengthen thy belly, and so shalt thou depart.
And the woman hath a calf of the stall in the house, and she hasteth and slaughtereth it, and taketh flour, and kneadeth, and baketh it unleavened things,
and have fallen away, crucifying for themselves [as they do] the Son of God, and make a show of .
For in that which he himself suffered when he was tempted, he is able to help them that are tempted.
and I trust in Jehovah that I myself also shall soon come.
And when Samuel rose early, to go to Saul in the morning, it was told Samuel, that Saul was come to Carmel, and had erected for himself a triumphant arch, and returning had passed over, and gone down to Galgal. And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul begat oblation a holocaust unto Jehovah out of the choicest of the spoils which he had brought from Amalec.
And by as much as this was not without a vow (for these on the one hand are become priests without an oath,
As faith Rahab the harlot was not put to death with them that had rebelled against God's commandments, because she had brought into her house in peace they sent to spy out the land.
The children of Israel again did that which was evil in Yahweh's sight, when Ehud, was dead.
But some one testified somewhere, saying, "What is man, that thou remember him, or the son of man, that thou care for him?
The men of Kiriath Jearim came and brought up the ark of Jehovah, and they brought it to the house of Abinadab, in Gibeah. They consecrated Eleazer his son to guard the ark of Jehovah I
As faith, Enoch was taken away, that he wouldn't see death, and he was not found, for God translated him. For he hath looked testimony given to him that before his translation he had been well acceptable to God.
I prayed for this child; and Yahweh hath given me my petition which I asked of him.
And David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice, and wept, until they had no more power to weep.
And delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and of all the enemies that afflicted thee: and I cast them out at thy coming in, and gave you their land.
David behaved himself myself wisely in all his ways, and Yahweh was with him.
Then Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house to Gibeah of Saul.
But of the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever; and the rod of thy kingdom is a rod of righteousness.
And all the inhabitants of Shechem and all Beth-millo were gathered together, and went and made Abimelech their king, by the oak of the pillar in Shechem.
And when the children of Ammon fought against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to fetch Jephthah out of the land of Tob.
Therefore, if there be any encouragement in Christ, if any consolation of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any affection and compassion,
And when Israel sowed seed, the Midianites, Amalekites, and David and the inhabitants of the east would come up against them.
(for the priests were made without an unto them: and this with swear by him that said unto him, Jehovah sware and shall not repent, Thou art a priest for ever after the commandment of Melchisedec:)
and the one turneth the way of detachment Beth-Horon, and the one detachment turneth the way of the border which is looked upon the valley of the Zeboim, toward the wilderness.
And the assembly sent thither twelve thousand men of the most valiant and commanded them, saying, Go and smite the inhabitants of Jabesh-Gilead with the edge of the sword, and the women, and the children.
far be it from me, by Jehovah, from putting forth my hand against the anointed of Jehovah; and now, take I pray thee, the spear which at his pillow, and the cruse of water, and we go away.'
And when Delilah saw that he had told her all his heart, she sent and called for the lords of the Philistines saying, Come up this once, for he hath shewed me all his heart. Then the lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and brought money in their hand.
In a very little time he that cometh shall come; he shall not be slow.
Then the Israelites rose up, and went up to Bethel, and they inquired of God, saying, "Who shall go up first for the battle against the descendants of Benjamin?" And Yahweh said, "Judah shall go first."
Now where there is remission of these, there is no more oblation for sin.
But the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Gideon; and at the sound of his horn all Abiezer gathered themselves together after him.
And now I know that thou shalt be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established under thy authority.
And they said, Arise, and let us go against Laish; for we have seen the land, and it is very good; why do ye nothing? Thou shalt not be slack to go in and possess the land for an inheritance.
And a garrison of the Philistines went out to the passage of Michmash.
But I would have you know, brethren, that the circumstances wherein I am have turned out rather to the furtherance of the glad tidings,
And there was no missed by them, neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, neither spoil nor anything that they had taken: David brought all hinder part.
And Saul saw, and understood that Jehovah was with David. And Michol the daughter of Saul beloved him.
And he said unto them, Why do ye such things? for I hear of your evil deeds from all this people.
And he bestowed eleven hundred shekels of silver, to his mother, and his mother said, I have made the silver holy unto Jehovah from me for my son, to make a graven image, and a molten image.
And Jehovah saith unto Samuel, `Hearken unto the voice of the people, to all that they say unto thee, for thee they have not rejected, but Me they have rejected, from reigning over them.
And the people served Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, that had seen all the mighty works of Jehovah, that he did for Israel.
And Judah went up, and Yahweh gave the Canaanite, and the Perizzite, into their hand, and they defeated ten thousand men at Bezek.
Then Jonathan made a covenant with David, because he loved him as his own soul.
All the saints salute thee, chiefly them that are of Caesar's house.
Manoah arose, and followed his wife, and came to the man, and said unto him, "Are ye the man that spoke unto my wife?" He said, "I am."
and Jesse took an ass with bread, and a flask of wine, and a kid, and sent by David his son to Saul.
As they went up the ascent to the city, they met maidens going forth to draw water; and they said unto them, Is the seer here?
And I will shoot three arrows near it, and will shoot as though I were exercising myself at blemish.
Then Saul approached Samuel in the midst of the gate and said, "Please tell me, where is the house of the seer?"
and having been perfected, began to all them that obey him, author of eternal salvation;
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of them that he plundered them, and into the hand of their enemies, round them, that they were heard say, before them.
Unless blessing I Saying: shall bless thee, and multiply multiplying I shall thee.
For this man was counted worthy of more glory than Moses, inasmuch as he that hath builded the house hath more honor than the house.
And David perceived that Saul was come out to seek his life; and David was in the wilderness of Ziph; in a wood.
He had a son named Saul, a especially good-looking young man; there was none better-looking among the children of Israel: he was taller by a head than any other of the people.
Now the phrase "yet once more" indicates the removal of that which is shaken, namely, things that have been created, to the intent that the things that are not shaken may remain.
And when Israel's wheat, and the Midian and the Amalekite and the inhabitants of the east came up against them;
For for this cause also do ye joy, and rejoice with me.
The five rulers of the Philistines saw it, and returned to Ekron that same day.
As faith they went through the Red Sea, as though it had been dry land, though the Egyptians were put to the worse before the water when they assayed to do likewise.
Now there was a man of the hill-country of Ephraim called Micah.
that we do boldly say, `The Lord unto me a healer; and I will not fear what man shall do unto me.'
Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honorable, whatsoever things are honorable, things are pure, whatsoever things are acceptable; whatsoever things are commendable, if there be any excellence of character and if anything praiseworthy, think about these things.
And it came to pass, when she pressed him daily with her words, and urged him, that his soul was vexed unto death;
But the people took of their goods, sheep and oxen, the chief of the things that are slain by the curse, to offer them unto Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.
Grace be with you all. Amen.
If ye fear Jehovah, and serve him, and hearken unto his voice, and rebel not against the commandment of Jehovah, then both ye and the king also that reigns over ye shall continue following Jehovah your God.
So that all they that fell that day of Benjamin were five and twenty thousand men that drew the sword: all these, men of valour.
Now the Philistines fought against Israel: and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
And the six hundred men took the priest, and the things we spoke of before, and came to Lais to a people that was quiet, and secure, and smote them with the edge of the sword; and the city was burnt with fire,
For where a covenant is, there must also of necessity be the death of the testator.
And Jephthah judged Israel, six years. And Jephthah the Gileadite died, and was buried in [one of] the cities of Gilead.
And Barak called together Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh; and there went up at his feet ten thousand: and Deborah went up with him.
Swear now therefore unto me of Jehovah, that thou wilt not cut off my seed after me, and that thou canst not destroy my name out of my father's house."
Zebulun did not drive out the inhabitants of Kitron or Nahalol, so the Canaanites lived in their midst and became subjected to cast labor.
And Micah saith unto him, `Dwell with me, and be to me for a father and for a priest, and I give unto thee ten silverlings for the days, and a suit of thy garments, and sustenance;' and the Levite goeth .
On that night Jehovah said unto him: Take a bullock of thy father's, and another bullock of seven years, and thou shalt destroy the altar of Baal, which is thy father's: and cut down the grove that is about the altar:
And fell down before his feet she said, Let the wrong be upon me, my lord, upon me: let thy servant, I pray thee, speak a word unto you, and hear the words of thy servant.
Elkanah her husband said unto her, "Hannah, why dost thou weep? Why don't thou eat? Why is thy heart grieved? Shall I not better unto thee than ten sons?"
for of patience ye needful that the will of God having done, ye may receive the promise,
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and forgot Jehovah their God, and served the Baalim and the Asherahs.
And he went from year to year in circuit unto Bethel, and Gilgal, and Mizpeh, and judged Israel in all them places.
So Samuel told him all the words, and did not hide them from him. And he answered: It is Jehovah: let him do that which is good in his sight.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came rushing upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon and smote thirty men there, rent their garments from them, and gave it unto the men that had given the answer unto his hard matter. And full of wrath, he returned unto his father's house.
And Manoah said unto the Angel of Jehovah, What is thy name, that when thy word cometh to pass we may do thee majesty?
And one of the people answered, and said, directly "Your father commanded the people with an oath, saying, 'Cursed is the man that eats food today.'" The people were faint.
And he took the people down to the water; and Jehovah said unto Gideon, Thou shalt surely by themselves all them drink up the water with their tongue like a dog; and in like manner all them that go down upon their knees unto the water while drink.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Jephthah, Jehovah be our who testified, we will surely do according to thy word.
`Lo, days come, and I have cut off thine arm, and the arm of the house of thy father, that an old man is not in thy house;
Then Saul commanded his servants, "Speak to David in secret, saying, 'Look, the king is pleased with thee? and all his servants love thee. So then become a son-in-law of the king.'"
And the idol of Michas remained with them all the time that the house of God was in Silo. In those days there was no king in Israel.
But indeed, as Jehovah the God of Israel liveth, who hath restrained me from thee, hurting except thou hadst hasted and come to meet me, there had not been left to Nabal by the morning light any male.
Saul summoned all the people to war, to go down to Keilah, to besiege David and his men.
And when Gaal saw the people, he said unto Zebul, Behold, people are coming down from the tops of the mountains. And Zebul said unto him, Thou see the shadow of the mountains like men.
So then are ye any better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? Did he ever quarrel with Israel, or did he ever fight against them?
When he finished prophesying, he went to the high place.
For we are become partakers of Christ, if we hold fast the beginning of our confidence firm to the end:
And the Angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh and the unleavened cakes, and lay them upon this flint, and pour out the broth. And he did so.
who existing in the likeness of God, didn't consider equality with God thing ought to be grasped,
And David said, What have I now done? Is it not laid upon me?
And Saul said, Disperse yourselves among the people, and say unto them, Bring me hither every man his bullock, and every man his sheep, and slay them hither, and eat; and sin not against Jehovah in eating with the blood. And all the assembly brought every man his ox, with him that night, and slew them there.
And he also went to Ramah. When he came to the great cistern which was in Secu, he asked and said, "Where are Samuel and David?" Some one said, "Look they are in Naioth in Ramah."
Have they not sped? have they not divided the prey; to every man a damsel or divide it: to Sisera a prey of divers had divers colors, a prey of divers colours of broidered work, of divers colours of the upon both sides; meet for the neck of them that take the spoil?
And they found among the inhabitants of Jabeshgilead four hundred young the virgin, that had known no man by lying with any male: and they brought them unto the camp to Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
Jehovah, when thou wentest out of Seir, when thou marchedst out of the field of Edom, the earth trembled, and the heavens also the clouds ye not, thus thou water.
Yahweh's angel said unto him, "Why do ye ask about my name, since it is incomprehensible?"
But unto Anna he gave one portion with sorrow, because he loved Anna. And Jehovah had shut up her womb.
having our countenance stedfastly upon Jesus, the guide and end of our faith, that went through the pangs of the cross, not visited the shame, because of the joy which was before him, and that hath now taken his place at the right hand of God's throne of power.
And the Spirit of Jehovah departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from Jehovah troubled him.
And Ehud, went out the vestibule, and he closed the gates of the upper chamber and sealed them behind him.
Then Saul said, "Come hither, all ye leaders of the people, that we find out saith the sin was this day.
Behold this day thy eyes have seen that Jehovah hath delivered thee into my hand, in the cave, and I had a heed to kill thee, but mine eye hath spared thee. For I spoken: I will not stretch out my hand upon my lord, because he is the Lord's anointed.
And Samuel judgeth Israel all the days of his life,
But there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Haste thee, and come; for the Philistines have invaded the land.
And there was great fear in the tents and in the field, and among all the men of the armed oppression, and the adversary quivered with afraid; even the earth was moved with a great quaking and there was a fear as of God.
For the earth that drinketh in the rain which cometh often upon it, and bringeth forth herbs meet for them of whom it is tilled, receiveth blessing of God.
This thing is not good which thou hast done. As Jehovah liveth, ye are worthy to die, because ye have not guarded thy master, Jehovah's anointed. And now see where the king's spear is, and the cruse of water that was at his head.
Now the Philistines gathering together their troops to battle, assembled at Socho of Juda, and camped between Socho and Azeca in the borders of Dommim.
And Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, saying, As Jehovah liveth, there shall no vengeance happen to thee for this thing.
And Samuel riseth, and goeth up from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin and Saul inspecteth the people that are found with him, about six hundred men,
And Samson said, Let me die with the Philistines! And he bowed himself with might; and the house fell upon the lords, and upon all the people that were therein. So the dead that he slew at his death were more than they whom he had slain in his life.
And Samuel told the people the right of the kingdom, and wrote it in the book, and laid it before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my lot, that we may battle against the Canaanites; and I likewise shall go with thee into thy lot. So Simeon went with him.
But we are persuaded concerning thee, beloved, better things, and connected with salvation, even if we speak thus.
but if not, let fire come out from Abimelech and devour the citizens of Shechem and the house of Millo; and let fire come out from the citizens of Shechem and from the house of Millo, and devour Abimelech.
and having confidence of this, For I know that I shall remain and abide along with you all, for thy progress and joy in faith;
and he hath gone out, and his servants are come in, and look, and lo, the gates of the upper chamber are bolted, and they say, `He is but covered his feet in the inner chamber of the wall.'
And after a few days David rose up, and went with the men that were under him, and he slew of the Philistines two hundred men, and brought their foreskins and numbered them out unto the king, that he might be his son in law. Saul therefore gave him Michol his daughter to wife.
And as for me, never shall I go against the commandment of Jehovah by giving up my prayers for you: but I will go on and teach thee the good and right way.
And Saul cast the javelin; for he said, I will smite David even to the wall with it. And David avoided out of his presence twice.
God hath delivered into thy hand the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb! What was I able to do in the least of you?" And their measure, was abated toward him, when he had said that.
Now Eli was very old, and he heard all that his sons were do unto all Israel, and that they were having sexual themselves unto that were serving at the entrance of the tabernacle of assembly.
And having a great priest over the house of God,
Then Eli answer and said, "Go in peace, and the God of Israel grant thy supplication that thou hast asked of him."
David struck them from the twilight even to the evening of the next day. not a man of them escaped from thence, except four hundred young men, that rode upon camels, and fled.
I took my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent her throughout all the country of the inheritance of Israel; for they have committed lewdness and folly in Israel.
For let this mind be in thee which also in Christ Jesus:
And Othniel, son chief Kenaz, younger brother of Caleb doth capture it, and he giveth to him Achsah his daughter for a wife.
And embraced the man. And the son in law tarried in the house of his father in law three days, eating with him, and drink familiarly.
And Samuel said unto him: The Lord hath rent the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath delivered it into thy neighbor that is better than thee.
So the Philistines were subdued, and they stopped from coming within the border of Israel. Yahweh's hand was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And he passed through mount Ephraim, and passed through the land of Shalishah, but they found not; and they passed through the land of Shaalim, and he found them not. And they passed through the land of Benjamin, and they found not.
And they came unto their brethren to Zorah, and Eshtaol: and their brethren said unto them, What say ye?
Now these are the nations which Yahweh left, to prove Israel by them, even as the countries, and as had not known all the wars of Canaan;
And he inspecteth them in Bezek, and the sons of Israel are three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
And Micah said unto him, "Stay with me, and be my father and a priest, and to thee will I give ten pieces of silver, a year, a set of clothes, and thy food." So the Levite went with him.
We will take ten men of a hundred out of all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred of a thousand and and one thousand of ten thousand and to bring provisions unto the troops, to repay them when they come to Gibeah of Benjamin for all the disgraceful things they did in Israel."
And Samuel said, Wherefore do thou puttest thy questions unto me, seeing that God is gone away from thee and is on the side of him that is against thee?
And the descendants of Benjamin device, "They are being defeated before us, as previously," and the Israelites said, "Let us flee and lure them away from the city to the main roads."
of the hospitality be not forgetful, for through this unawares certain did entertain messengers;
Now Deborah, a prophetess, the wife of Lappidoth, judged Israel at that time.
A son of a year Saul in his reigning, yea, two years he hath reigned over Israel,
And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
And: Thou in the beginning, O Jehovah, didst found the earth: and the works of thy hands are the heavens.
"Through the window she told thee, down; the mother of Sisera cried out through the lattice, 'Why is his chariot delayed in coming? Why do the hoof beats of his chariot tarry?'
For behold, he regardeth not on the life of angels, but that of the seed of Abraham.
And Saul sent to Jesse saying, Let David be with me, for he is acceptable to me.
Now therefore listen unto their voice. Ask me never ye shall rebuke solemnly unto them, and shall show them the way of the king who shall reign over them."
And the Philistines seized him, gouged his eyes, and brought him to Gaza. They tied him up with bronze shackles, and he became a grinder in the prison.
Now the angel of Jehovah came up from Gilgal to Bochim. And he said, And I brought you out of Egypt, and led you into the land which I sware unto thy fathers; and I said, My covenant with thee shall never be broken by me:
And he said, Wherefore doth my lord persecute his servant? What have I done? or what evil is there in my hand?
And Saul said, Cast between me and Jonathan my son. And Jonathan was taken.
Ye have not yet into blood, resisted striving against sin;
And he took Agag the king of Amalec alive: but all the common people he slew with the edge of the sword.
Samuel said, "Even though thou art small in your own eyes, are ye not the head of the tribes of Israel? Yahweh hath anointed thee king over Israel.
All the most valiant men arose, and henceforth bereave all the night, and took the body of Saul, and the bodies of his sons, from the wall of Bethsan: and they came to Jabes Galaad, and burnt them there:
Why hast thou abode between the boundaries, To hear lowings of before thee? For the courses of Reuben, Great the searchings of of good courage.
And the Philistine spoken: I have defied the bands of Israel this day: Give me a man, and let him battle with me hand to hand.
So Samuel prayed unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day; and all the people feared Jehovah, and of Samuel.
that Michal Saul's daughter, beloved David; and they told Saul, and the thing pleased him.
And they come down from the high place unto the city, and he speaketh with Saul upon the roof.
And they go up and encamp in Kirjath-Jearim, in Judah, therefore they have called thence, `Camp of Dan,' unto this day; lo, behind Kirjath-Jearim.
Then said Abishai unto David, God hath delivered thine enemy into thine hand this day: now therefore let me smite him, I pray thee, with the spear even to the earth at once, and I will not smite him the second time.
As faith Joseph dying called unto the going forth of the sons of Israel, and gave commandment concerning his bones.
Then Samuel said unto the people, "Come, and let us go to Gilgal, and renew the kingdom there."
Now the name of his firstborn was Joel: and the name of his second, Abijah. They judged Beersheba.
And Jotham ran away, and fled, and went to Beer: that is and dwelt there, for fear of Abimelech his brother.
And Samuel doth that which Jehovah hath spoken, and cometh in unto Beth-Lehem, and the elders of the city tremble to meet him, and thy coming peace?' `Is saith,
Barak said unto her, "If thou go with me, I will go; but if ye will not go with me, I will not go."
Now there was a man of Benjamin called Kish the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Becorath, the son of Aphiah, a Benjamite, a man mammon.
If he say thus, It is well,thy servant shall have peace; but if he be very wroth, be sure that wickedness is determined by him.
But what then? That by all means, whether by occasion, nor by truth, Christ be preached: in this also I rejoice, yea, and shall rejoice.
For this the covenant that I will covenant to the house of Israel after those days, saith Jehovah: giving my statutes, into their mind, I will write them also upon their heart; and I will be their for God, and *they* shall be to me for people.
because I shall be merciful unto their unrighteousness, and their sins, and their lawlessnesses I will remember no more;' --
And Samuel said unto the people; It is Jehovah, Who made Moses and Aaron, and brought our fathers out of the land of Egypt.
Wherefore it behoved him in all things to be made like unto brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things relating unto God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people;
They that were full have hired out themselves for bread: and they that were hungry ceased: so that the barren hath born seven; and she that hath the countries, and children is waxed weak.
Yahweh's ark was in the country of the Philistines seven months.
and Saul seeketh to smite with the javelin through David, and through the wall, and he freeth himself from the presence of Saul, and he smiteth the javelin through the wall; and David fled and hath escapeth during that night.
Women had their dead restored to them abiding; others be shamefully suffer wrong, having not go free, that they might have a better life to come;
For whereas for the time ye ought to be masters, ye have need to be taught again what are the first elements of the words of God: and ye are become such as have need of milk, and not of strong ravin.
For even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again unto my necessity.
For when for the time ye ought to you teachers, ye have need that one teach thee again which be the first principles of the oracles of God; and are become such as have need of milk, and not of strong ravin.
holding forth word of life, so as to be a boast for me in Christ's day, that I have not vain in run nor laboured in vain.
He brought them before the king of Moab; and they lived with him all the time that David was in the stronghold.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried out with a loud voice, and said unto Saul: Why hast thou deceived me, seeing thou art Saul.
And they said, In the morning we shall come forth unto you: and ye shall do that which thou please with us.
And on the third day, it shall be especially noted, and thou shalt go unto the place where ye took covering when the other business was in hand, standing by the hill over there.
Saul said unto Ahijah, "Bring God's ark here." For God's ark was with the children of Israel at that time.
Pray for us. For we trust we have a good conscience, being willing to behave ourselves well in all things.
Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into the bread chamber, and made them sit in the best place among them that were invited, that were about thirty souls.
And they said unto him, "Keep quiet! Put thy hand upon thy mouth, and come with us, and be for us a father and a priest. Is it better being a priest for a house of one man or being a priest for a tribe and clan in Israel?"
And it cometh to pass, when David completeth to speak these words unto Saul, that Saul saith, `Is this thy voice, my son David?' and Saul lifteth up his voice, and weepeth.
He sent ten young men, and said unto them, Go up to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and salute him in my name with peace.
(and the cook lifteth up the thigh, and that which upon it, and setteth before Saul), and he saith, `Lo, that which is left; set before thee -- eat, for unto this appointed season it is kept for thee, saying, The people I have called;' and Saul eateth with Samuel in that day.
There was a young man from Bethlehem in Judah, from the clan of Judah; he was a Levite and was dwelling as a foreigner there.
And the priest said, The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom thou slain in the valley of Elah is here dandled in a cloth behind the ephod: take that, if I pray thee, for there is no other sword here. And David said, there is no other sword like that side; and give it unto me.
Jehovah do so and much more to Jonathan: but if it please my father to do thee evil, then I will shew it thee, and send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace: and Jehovah be with thee, as he hath been with my father.
And it came to pass, that from the day the ark of Jehovah abode in Cariathiarim days were multiplied, (for it was now the twentieth year,) and all the house of Israel rested following Jehovah.
And Saul sendeth messengers to take David, and she saith, `He sick.'
that ye may approve the things that are excellent; that ye may be sincere and without offense unto the day of Christ;
Jehovah judge between me and thee, and Jehovah give me full my right against thee, but my hand shall not lift up against thee.
And David recovered all that the Amalekite had carried away; and David rescued his two wives with thee.
And all the citizens of Shechem gathered together, and all the house of Millo, and went and made Abimelech king by the memorial-oak that is in Shechem.
And Manue said unto the angel of Jehovah: I beseech thee to consent unto my request, and let us attire a kid for thee.
And it came to pass in the day of battle, that there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan: but with Saul and with Jonathan his son was there found.
Wherefore in all things it behoved him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make reconciliation for the sins of the people.
And he numbered them in Bezec: and there were of the children of Israel three hundred thousand; and of the men of Juda thirty thousand.
And the man went to the land of the Hittites, and he built a city and called it Luz; this is the name unto this day.
Then the woman said, Who shall I let thou? And he said, Make Samuel come up for me.
They make their heart glad, and lo, men of the city, men -- sons of worthlessness -- are gone round about the house, beating upon the door, and they speak unto the old man, the master of the house, saying, `Bring out the man that hath come unto thine house, and we know him.'
And he went away from the city of Beth-lehem-judah, seeking somewhere to make his dwelling-place: and upon his journey he came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah.
And Saul saith unto Jonathan `Declare unto me, what hast thou done?' and Jonathan declareth unto him, and saith, `I surely tasted with the end of the rod that in my hand a little honey; lo, I die!'
Then Jesse called Abinadab, and made him come before Samuel. And he said, Jehovah hath not taken this one.
Wherefore let us, receiving a kingdom not to be shaken, have grace, whereby let us serve God acceptably with reverence and fear.
And the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel. Because of the Midian the children of Israel made them the dens that are in the mountains, and the caves, and the strongholds.
And he took a yoke of oxen, and cut them in pieces, and sent throughout the territory of Israel by the hand of messengers, saying, Whosoever cometh not forth after Saul and after Samuel, so shall it be done unto his oxen! And the fear of Jehovah fell upon the people, and they came out as one man.
And David saith unto Jonathan `Who declare unto me? or what doth thy father doth answer thee sharply?'
And all that were in distress and oppressed with debt, and under affliction of mind gathered themselves unto him: and he began to their prince, and there were with him about four hundred men.
Then David said, "O Jehovah, the God of Israel, thy servant hath surely heard that Saul seeks to come unto Keilah, to destroy the city for my sake.
So Samuel took a single stone, and set it between Mizpah, and Shen, and he called it Ebenezer and said, "Up to here Yahweh hath helped, us."
And he came to the men of Succoth, and said, Behold Zebah and Zalmunna, with whom ye did upbraid me, saying, Art the hand of Zebah and Zalmunna already in thy hand, that we should give bread to thy men that are weary?
saying, `Blessing indeed I will bless thee, and multiply thee;' multiplying I will
Wherefore God also hath exalted him, and hath given him a name which is above all names:
And the people felt sorry for Benjamin because Yahweh weakened the tribes of Israel.
The lords of the Philistines gathered them together to offer a great sacrifice to Dagon their god, and to rejoice; for they said, "Our god hath delivered into our enemy our Samson hand."
but to Hannah he used prepare a double portion, for he loved Hannah; but Jehovah had shut up her womb.
And the measure, of Jehovah burneth against Israel, and He giveth them into the hand of spoilers, and they spoil them, and He selleth them into the hand of their enemies round about, and they have not been able any more to stand before their enemies;
Yet ye have forsaken me, and served other gods: wherefore I will deliver thee no more.
And David came to the two hundred men, that were so that they could not faint follow David, whom they had made also to abide at the brook Besor: and they went forth to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him: and when David came near unto the people, he saluted them.
And he said unto her, If they bind me fast with new ropes that never were occupied, then shall I be weak, and be as another man.
And his father and his mother said unto him, "Isn't there a woman among thy brothers' daughters, or among all my people, that thou go to take a wife of the uncircumcised Philistines?" Samson said unto his father, "Get her for me, for she pleases me well."
Samuel took a suckling lamb, and offered it for a whole burnt oblation unto Jehovah I Samuel cried unto Yahweh for Israel; and Yahweh answer him.
for them in Aroer, for them in Siphmoth, for them in Eshtemoa,
Grace be with you all. Amen.
David said unto Achish, "If now I have found favor in thy sight, let them give me a place in one of the cities in the field, that I may dwell there. For why should thy servant dwell in the royal city with you?"
Now when Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, fled to David, he came down to Keilah the robe of the ephod in his hand.
And her father said, I verily that thou didst utterly hatred her; therefore I gave her to thy companion. Is not her younger sister fairer than she? Let her, I pray thee, be thine instead of her.
But the people, the men of Israel, speaking boldly again, set the battle in order and took up the same priesthood as in the first day.
Just as he turned his shoulder to depart from Samuel, God changed his heart. And all these signs were fulfilled in that day.
Samson said, "Let me die with the Philistines!" He bowed himself with all his might; and the house fell upon the lords, and upon all the people that were therein. So the dead that he killed at his death were more than they that he killed in his life.
are they not all spirits of service -- for ministration being sent forth because of them about to inherit saved?
But he that counted from them descent is not received tithes of Abraham, and blessed him that had the promises.
Yahweh will render to every man his righteousness and his faithfulness; because Yahweh delivered you into my hand this day, and I wouldn't plain out my hand against Yahweh's anointed.
And the trees said unto the vine: Come thou and reign over us.
For when for the time ye ought to you teachers, ye have again need that should teach thee what the elements of the beginning of the oracles of God, and are become such as have need of milk, not of solid food.
And Saul draweth nigh unto Samuel in the midst of the gate, and saith, `Declare, I pray thee, unto me, where this -- the seer's house?'
The Levite, the husband of the woman that was murdered, answered, "I came into Gibeah that belongs to Benjamin, I and my concubine, to spend the night.
Then David came to Nob to Ahimelech the priest. Ahimelech came to meet David trembling, and said unto him, "Why art thou alone, and no man with you?"
He had forty sons and thirty sons' sons, that rode upon seventy donkey colts. He judged Israel eight years.
if thou then have dealt verily and righteously with Jerubbaal and with his house this day, that rejoice in Abimelech and let him also rejoice in thee;
And the men of Israel and of Judah arose, and cried out, and followed the Philistines as far as Gath, and the city gates of Ekron. And the wounded of the Philistines were fell by the way from Shaaraim all the way to Gath, and Ekron.
And David speaketh unto the men that are standing by him, saying, `What is done unto him that smiteth this Philistine, and hath turned aside reproach from Israel? for who this uncircumcised Philistine that he hath reproached the ranks of the living God?'
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people rose early, and built there an altar, and offer up burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
David therefore departed thence, and escaped unto the cave Adullam: and when his brethren and all his father's house heard it, they went down thither unto him.
And they sent and gathered all the lords of the Philistines, and said, Cast out the ark of the God of Israel, and let it go again to its own place, that it kill us not, and our people. For there was deadly alarm throughout the city: the hand of God was very heavy there;
And the Angel of Jehovah appeared unto him, and said unto him, Jehovah is with thee, thou mighty man of valour.
And Jehovah spake unto Samuel, How long wilt thou go on mourneth for Saul, seeing I have set him out of his place as king over Israel? Take oil in thy vessel and depart; I will send thee unto Jesse, the Beth-lehemite: for I have found a king over myself among his sons.
Obey thy prelates, and be subject unto them. For they watch as being render unto him, your souls. that they may do this with joy, and not with heaviness. For this is not expedient for you.
So David fled and escaped, and he came to Samuel at Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and stayed in Naioth.
So then this gift which thy female servant hath brought unto my lord, shall it be given to the young men that follow my lord.
And they brought the vessels of the people, and their horns from their hands, and he sent them away, every man to his tent, but the three hundred left, and the tents of Midian did lower down in the valley.
And it was told the Gazites, Samson is here. And they went about, slumbereth him all day at the gate of the city, but at night they held their peace, saying, When daylight cometh we will slew him.
Notwithstanding ye have well done, that ye did communicate with my affliction.
Howbeit the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the words of Jephthah which he sent him.
They went up to the city. As they came within the city, behold, Samuel came out toward them, to go up to the high place.
Now command thy servants that are here before thee to seek a man that can play well on a stringed instrument; and it shall come to pass, when the demon from God is upon thee, he will make music for thou upon his awl, and ye shall recover.
But the lad did not know concerning this, only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
Then Samuel arose, and went up from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin. And Saul mustered the people that were found with him, about six hundred men.
and others suffered trial of mockings and scourgings, yea, and of bonds and imprisonment.
And no man shall hearken unto you in this matter. But equal shall be the portion of him that went down to battle and of him that abode at the baggage, and they shall divide alike.
And Samson said unto her, If they bind me with seven green withs that were not dried, then shall I be weak, and be as another man.
For if he were upon earth, he should not be a priest, saw that there are priests that offer gifts according to the law:
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, seeing I have rejected him from reigning over Israel? fill thy horn with oil, and go, I will send thee to Jesse the Bethlehemite; for I have provided me a king among his sons.
and that all this assembly may know that Yahweh doesn't save with sword, and spear: for the battle is Yahweh's, and he will give thee into our hand."
Now no chastening for the present seemeth to be grievous: nevertheless joyous, but afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them that are exercised thereby.
For we don't have a high priest that can't smite thee with the heart of our infirmities, but one that hath been in all points tempted as we are, yet not sin.
Now the Spirit of Yahweh departed from Saul and an evil spirit from Yahweh tormented him.
And when he had brought him down, behold, they were spread abroad upon all the earth, eating and drunkenness, and dancing, because of all the great spoil that they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
(of whom the world was not worthy,) to wander in deserts and mountains, and dens and caverns of the earth.
Therefore the measure, of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Chushanrishathaim king of Mesopotamia: and the children of Israel served Chushanrishathaim eight years.
And there came a man of God unto Eli, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Did I plainly appear unto the house of thy father, when they were in Egypt in Pharaoh's house?
All that saw it, said, "Nothing as this hath been since the Israelites went up from the land of Egypt until this day. Observe it, consider it, and speak up."
David came to the two hundred men, that were so that they could not faint follow David, whom also they had made to stay at the brook Besor; and they went out to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him. When David came near unto the people, he greeted them.
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If ye do return unto Jehovah with all thy heart, then put away the foreign gods, and Ashtaroth from the midst of thee, and prepare thy heart unto Jehovah, and serve him only; and he shall deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
At Bezek they came upon Adoni-bezek, and they fought against him, and defeated the Canaanite, and the Perizzites.
Then said Elkanah her husband unto her, Hannah, why weepest thou? And why eatest thou not? and why is thy heart grieved? am not I better to thee than ten sons?
For Jesus is not entered into the holies made with hands; the patterns of the true: but into heaven itself, that he may appear now in the presence of God for us.
For they had instruments of death in a crown upon their ploughs and blades and forks and axes, and of death in iron, points upon their ox-driving the bars thereof.
And it came to pass in the day of battle, that there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan; but Saul and with Jonathan his son had them.
On the day Elkanah sacrificed, he would give portions to his wife Peninnah and to all her sons and daughters.
So the people took victuals in their hand, and their trumpets: and he sent all the remnant of Israel every man unto his tent, and retained them three hundred men: and the host of Midian was beneath him in the valley.
And now, lo, the king whom ye have chosen -- whom ye have asked! and lo, Jehovah hath set over thee a king.
So Jehovah saved Israel that day; and the battle passed over unto Bethaven.
But my greatly beloved, we trust better things of thee, and near unto salvation; though we speak thus.
Then Samuel said unto Saul, "You have behaved foolishly! Ye have not kept the command of Yahweh thy God which he commanded thee. For therefore Yahweh would have established thy kingdom over Israel forever.
So Samuel called unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day; and all the people greatly feared Jehovah, and Samuel.
When they came down from the high place unto the city, he spoke with Saul upon the roof.
And he said unto Jether, his eldest son: Arise, and slay them. But he drew not his sword: for he was afraid, being but yet a up.
but he with swear by the one that said unto him, "The Lord hath sworn and shall not baptism his mind, 'You are a priest forever'"),
Then said Saul, I have sinned: return, my son David; for I will no more do thee harm, because my soul was precious in thine eyes this day: behold, I have played the fool, and have erred exceedingly.
and she saith, `Philistines upon thee, Samson;' and he awaketh out of sleep and saith, `I go forth as time by time, and shake myself;' and he hath not known that Jehovah hath turned aside from off him.
And when the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, they said, What meaneth the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews? And they understood that the ark of Jehovah was come into the camp.
And Saul heard that David was discovered, and the men that were with him. Now Saul was sitting in Gibeah under the tamarisk upon the height, having his spear in his hand; and all his servants were standing by him.
And they found Adonibezek in Bezek: and they fought against him, and they slew the Canaanite, and the Perizzites.
After him Elon the Zebulunite judged Israel; and he judged Israel ten years.
And his brethren mother's speak concerning him, in the ears of all the masters of Shechem, all these words, and their heart inclineth after Abimelech for they said, `He our brother;'
But David pursued, he and four hundred men: for two hundred stayed, that being weary could not pass over the torrent Besor.
When Gideon heard the recounting of the dream and the interpretation, he bowed down, and returned to the camp of Israel; and he said, "Get up; for Yahweh hath given the camp of Midian into thy hand."
And by understanding hereof he ought, as for the people, so also for himself, and offer for sins.
Again, he limiteth a certain day, saying in David, To day, after so long a time; as it is written, To day if ye shall hear his voice, harden not your hearts.
And they declare unto Barak son of Abinoam Sisera that hath gone up unto mount Tabor,
And as to the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels spirits and his ministers a flame of fire;
The descendants of Dan sent from the whole number of their clan five capable men from Zorah, and Eshtaol, to spy out the land and to explore it. And they said unto them, "Go, explore the land." And they went to the hill country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and they spent the night there.
They did therefore in this manner: and containing two calves, they kine, that had suckling yoked them unto the cart, and shut up their calves at home.
And he said, Go. And he sent her away for two months. And she went with her companions, and bewailed her virginity upon the mountains.
And the men of Israel have sworn in Mizpeh, saying, `None of us doth give his daughter to Benjamin for a wife.'
But beyond all gainsaying, the inferior is blessed by the good.
God having spoken in the countries, parts and in the countries, ways formerly unto the fathers in the prophets,
Not that I speak in respect of want: for I have learned, in whatsoever state I am, to be therewith content.
And every one that was in distress, and every one that was debtors, and every one that was discontented, gathered themselves unto him; and he became a captain over them: and there were with him about four hundred men.
that same night, Yahweh said unto him, "Arise, go down into the camp; for I have delivered it into thy hand.
He said unto her, "Please give me a little water to drink; for I am thirsty." She opened an alabaster cruse of milk, and gave him a drink, and covered him.
And Samuel said unto all the people, See ye him whom Jehovah hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people? And all the people shouted, and said, God save the king.
the same conflict having, such as ye saw in me, and now hear of in me.
reckoning that even out of the dead God is able to raise up, whence also in a figure he did receive .
And Samuel brought unto him all the tribes of Israel, and the lot fell upon the tribe of Benjamin.
And he brought them before the king of Moab: and they dwelt with him all the while that David was in the hold.
and, (so terrible was the sight,) Moses said, `I am exceedingly, and fearful trembling.'
And he said unto the lad, Go, and buy the arrow I poured out from my bow. And as the lad was running, he sent an arrow by him.
Jehovah forbid that I should their ponds forth my hand against Jehovah's anointed! But now take I pray thee, the spear that is at his head, and the cruse of water, and let us go.
for the people that were numbered of them, and behold, there were none of the inhabitants of Jabesh-Gilead there.
And it cometh to pass afterwards that the heart of David smiteth him, because that he hath cut off the skirt which upon Saul,
And it cometh to pass on the second morrow of the new moon, that David's place shall be sought after, and Saul saith unto Jonathan his son, `Wherefore hath the son of Jesse not come in, either yesterday or unto the food?' to-day,
To whom, though himself in the likeness of God, not, neither that to take for oneself should be as God;
And Gedeon, and the three hundred men that were with him, went into part of the camp, at the beginning of the midnight watch, and the watchmen being alarmed, they began to sound their trumpets, and to clap the pitchers one against another.
by faith he left Egypt behind, not having been afraid of the wrath of the king, for, as seeing the Invisible One -- he endured;
Therefore Jehovah left those nations, without dispossessing them hastily, neither delivered he them into the hand of Joshua.
And the priests' custom with the people was, when any man sacrificed a sacrifice, the priest's servant came, when the flesh was cooked, with a flesh-hook of three prongs in his hand;
Saul said, "They have brought them from the Amalekites; the troops spared the best of the sheep and the cattle in order to sacrifice them to Yahweh your God. But the rest we have utterly destroyed."
Then the bad and worthless men among them that went with David said, Because they did not with us, we shall they of the deposit which we have redeemed, but only to every man his wife, and children, that he may bring them and go.
And the me, go up unto Saul to Gibeah, saying, `Is not David hiding himself with us in fortresses, in the forest, in the height of Hachilah, which on the south of the desolate place?
And David cometh in unto Nob, unto Ahimelech the priest, and Ahimelech trembleth at meet David, and saith unto him, `Wherefore thou thyself alone, and no man with thee?'
And now his hair began to grow again.
So and changed his law before them, he made it seem as though he was off his head, beating upon the gates of the city, And in the water out of his mouth go down his chin.
But Saul, and they, and all the children of Israel were in the valley of Terebinth fighting against the Philistines.
Then Samuel told the people the regulations of the kingdom, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before Jehovah I Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
And they of Bethshemesh were reaping their wheat harvest in the valley: and they lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.
She saith unto him: I will go indeed with thee, but at this time the victory shall not be attributed unto thee, because Sisara shall be delivered into the hand of a woman. Debbora therefore arose, and went with Barac to Cedes.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Jephthah, Therefore we purifications accomplished, again to thee now, that thou mayest go with us, and battle against the children of Ammon, and be our head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
And there addeth to be war, and David goeth out, and fighteth against the Philistines, and smiteth among them -- a great smiting, and they flee from his face.
Of whom we have the countries, and things to say, and hard to be uttered, seeing ye are dull of ears.
And so it was, when Israel had sown, that the Midian came up, and the Amalekites, and David and the children of the east, even they came up against them;
His friend answer him, and said, "This cannot be anything except the sword of Gideon son of Jehoash a man of Israel; God hath given Midian and the camp into his hand." entire
And she made him sleep upon her knees, and called a man, and she cause him to shave off the seven set his head; and she began to overpower him, and his strength in him.
As faith Enoch was taken up, Lest he did not known, death, and he was not found, for God brought him up. For before his removal, he had been approved as having been well-pleasing in God.
For if Joshua had slain them down, he would not have spoken concerning another day after these things.
`And, now, if in truth and in sincerity ye have acted, when ye make Abimelech to reign; and if ye have done good with Jerubbaal, and with his house; and if according to the deed of his hands ye have done to him --
Now when their heart was joy, they said, Call Samson unto me to mock for us. And they called Samson from the house of bondage, and he mocked before them; and they cast him between the pillars.
So all the men of Israel gathered themselves together against the city, joined as one man.
So the Philistines fought and Israel was defeated and each man fled to his tent, for the slaughter was very great. thirty thousand foot soldiers from Israel fell.
Fleeing as far as Bethsetta, and the border of Abelmahula in Tebbath. But the men of Israel shouting from Nephtali and Aser, and from all Manasses pursued after Madian.
And Caleb said, He that smiteth Kirjathsepher, and taketh it, to him will I give Achsah my daughter to wife.
But the God of peace, that brought again from the midst of dead our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of the ram, in [the power of the] blood of everlasting covenant,
Speak, you, that ride upon fair asses, and ye that sit in judgment, and walked in the way.
And lo, a man, an aged one, hath come from his work from the field when even was come, and the man of the hill-country of Ephraim, and he a sojourner in Gibeah, and the men of the place Benjamites.
For patience must thee; that, to do the will of God, ye may receive the promise.
Abimelech chased him; and he fled before him, and the countries, and fell corpses, even unto the entrance of the gate.
and the man goeth into the land of the Hittites, and buildeth a city, and calleth its name Luz -- it its name unto this day.
And also all the generation, were gathered unto their fathers; and there arose another generation after them, which knew not Jehovah, nor yet the works which he had done for Israel.
And Jonathan covenanteth with the house of David, and Jehovah hath sought from the hand of the enemies of David:
And did I choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to offer upon mine altar, to burning by incense, to wear an ephod before me? and did I give unto the house of thy father all the offerings of Jehovah made by fire of the children of Israel?
And he answer them: I and my people were at great strife with the children of Ammon: and I called thee to assist me, and ye would not do it.
Behold, Saul came following the oxen out of the field; and Saul said, "What ails the people that they weep?" They told him the words of the men of Jabesh.
Now all chastisement for the present indeed seemeth not to bring with it joy, but mourning: but afterwards it shall yield, unto them that are exercised by it, the most peaceable fruit of justice.
And she arose, and going down upon her face to the earth, said, Behold, I am ready to be a handmaid, wash the feet of the servants of my lord.
Though men shall rise up to pursue thee, and to seek thy soul, yet the soul of my lord shall be bound in the bundle of life with Yahweh your God. He will sling out the souls of your enemies, as from the hollow of a sling.
The descendants of Benjamin went out from Gibeah, and they struck down on that day twenty and two thousand men of Israel to the ground.
and not frightened in anything by the opposers, which is their demonstration of destruction, but of thy salvation, and that from God;
As he saith also in another place, Thou art a priest for ever After the order of Melchizedek.
They put away the foreign gods from among them, and served Yahweh; and his soul was grieved for the misery of Israel.
Now faith is the elements things to be hoped for, the evidence of things that appear not.
Then Saul went up from following the Philistines; and the Philistines went to their own place.
As soon as ye enter into the city, straightway ye shall find him, before he goeth up to the high place to eat; for the people eat not until he is come, because he blesses the sacrifice; afterwards they eat that are invited. And now go up; for this very day ye shall find him.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred silver-pieces that were purchased from thee, and concerning which thou didst curse and speak of in mine ears, behold, the silver is with me; I did eat. And his mother said, Blessed be my son of Jehovah!
And on the one hand indeed, by reproaches and tribulations, were made a gazingstock; and on the other side, became companions of them that were used in such words.
Jehovah do so and much more to Jonathan. Should it please my father [to do] thee evil, then I will apprise thee of it, and send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace; and Jehovah be with thee, as he hath been with my father.
So Samson went and called three hundred foxes and some sticks of fire-wood; and he put the foxes tail, to tail, with a staff between every two tails;
that we also may be like unto all the nations; and our king shall judge us, and go out before us, and conduct our wars.
And the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they answered, Samson, the son-in-law of the Timnite, because he took his wife, and gave her to his companion. And the Philistines came up, and burn her and her father with fire.
(The former times in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, he said, "Come, and let us go unto the seer"; for he that is now called a prophet was before called a seer.)
though the men were very good unto us; we were not mistreated and did not miss anything all the days we went about with them while we were in the field.
When they were coming back when David had returned from striking down the Philistine, the women went out from all the cities of Israel singing and dancing to meet king Saul with tambourines, with joy, and with three-stringed instruments.
And they shall say thus, Come up unto us, then we will go up; for Jehovah hath delivered them into our hand; and this shall be the sign unto us.
Then Samuel rose up early in the morning to meet Saul. Samuel was told, "Saul is gone to Carmel, and look, he is setting up a monument for himself." And he turned around and crossed over, and went down to Gilgal.
And that should listen unto thee regarding this matter? For as the share of the one that went down into the battle, so the share of the one that remained with the baggage shall alike." share They shall be.
He that despised Moses' law died without mercy under two or three witnesses:
But now their heart on a better country, that is to say, for one in heaven; and so it is no shame to God to be called their God; for he hath prepared a city for them.
Then forty years the land had peace, until the death of Othniel the son of and Kenaz.
and saith unto him, `Thus said Jephthah, Israel took not the land of Moab, and the land of the Bene-Ammon,
Then Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went to seek David and his men upon the stones of the wild goats.
They have been far off from the house of Micah -- and the men that in the houses which nigh unto the house of Micah have been called together, and overtake the sons of Dan,
But Jehoash said unto all that stood against him, "Will ye contend for Baal? Wilt thou rescue him? Whosoever contends for him shall fall before you by the morning. If he is a god, let him contend for himself because his altar hath been plucked down."
And he gathered unto him the children of Ammon, and Amalek, and went and smote Israel, and possessed the city of palm wood.
As they cried unto the children of Dan, they turned their faces, and said unto Micah, "What ails thee, that thou come with such a company?"
And there was a man of mount Ephraim, whose name was Micah.
and said, Let me go, I pray thee; for we have a house sacrifice in the city; and my brother himself hath commanded me [to be there]; and now, if I have found favour in thy sight, let me pass away, I pray thee, and see my brethren. He hath therefore not come to the king's table.
He also saith, "Their sins, and their lawless deeds I will never remember again."
And Abigail came to Nabal; and behold, he held a feast in his house, as the feast of a to reign; and Nabal's heart was merry within him: for he was drunken to excess; so she told him nothing, less or more, until the morning light.
The adversaries of Jehovah shall fear him: and upon them shall he thundered in the heavens. Jehovah shall judge the ends of the earth, and he shall give empire to his king, and shall exalt the horn of his Christ.
And it hath been when she multiplied praying before Jehovah, that Eli watcheth, her mouth,
And Samuel saith, `As thy sword bereaved women -- so is bereaved above thy mother women;' and Samuel heweth Agag in pieces before Jehovah in Gilgal.
This day, and Jehovah will deliver thee into my hand, and I will slay thee, and take away thy head from thee: and I will give the carcasses of the host of the Philistines this day unto the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel.
He therefore I hope to send immediately, as soon as I shall see how it went with me:
And Saul said, Come near, all ye princes of the people, and let us get warned of God and see in whom is this sin this day.
And Saul called for the people, and had them numbered in Telaim, two hundred thousand footmen and ten thousand men of Judah.
David took the head of the Philistine, and brought it to Jerusalem; but he laid his armor in his tent.
perfect my joy, that ye are in covenant, having the same love, joined in spirit, having one purpose.
For unto Thessalonica also thou didst send once and again for my dwell in.
Inasmuch as he was not made priest without the carrying of an oath
Now when Saul saw David going forth to meet the Philistine, he said unto Abner the commander of the host, "Whose son is this young man, Abner?" And Abner said, "As thy soul lives, O king, I do not know."
And the man riseth to go, he and his concubine, and his young man, and his father-in-law, father of the young woman, saith unto him, `Lo, I pray thee, the day hath fallen toward evening, lodge all night, I pray thee; lo, the declining of the day! lodge hither, and let thine heart be glad -- and ye have risen early to-morrow for your journey, and thou hast gone to thy tent.'
And saith, Samson `With a jaw-bone of the ass -- an ass, upon asses, -- with a jaw-bone of the ass I have smitten a thousand men.'
And another company turned the way to Bethhoron: and another company toward the way of the border that looketh unto the valley of Zeboim toward the wilderness.
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking, that he cast away the jawbone out of his hand, and called the name of that place Ramathlehi.
fearful the of the hand of a living God.
And they possessed all the borders of the Amorites, from the Arnon unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness unto the the Jordan.
And he said unto the children of Israel, saying, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel: I brought up out of Egypt, and delivered thee from the hand of the Egyptians, and from the hand of all the kings that afflicted thee.
how much more shall the blood of the Christ (he through the age-during Spirit did offer himself God) unblemished to purify your conscience from dead works to serve the living God?
then it hath been that which at all cometh forth from the gates of my house to meet me in my turned back in peace from the Bene-Ammon -- it hath been unto Jehovah, or I have offered up for it -- a burnt-offering.'
That two immutable things, wherein it is impossible for God to lie, we may have the mightiest exhort, that are fled for refuge to hold fast the hope set before us.
And Saul spoken: Cast lots between me, and Jonathan my son. And Jonathan was taken.
but solid food belongs to full-grown men, that by reason of habit, have their fell exercised for distinguishing both good and evil.
And Abimelech came unto the tower and fought against it: and drew nigh unto the door of the tower to setteth on fire it.
As faith he was a fugitive and in the land of the covenant, as in a foreign people that dwell in tents with Isaac, and Jacob, who had a portion with him in the same inheritance:
And and ran upon the spoil in the battle, the people took oxen and sheep, and young bullocks, and slew them there upon the earth, and had a meal, taking upon the mountains: in the therein.
And it came to pass when they were come, that he they esteemed Eliab and said, Surely Jehovah's anointed is before him.
And a man of Benjamin runneth out of the ranks, and cometh into Shiloh, in that day, and his long garments rent, and earth upon his head:
Now Zebah and Zalmunna were in Karkor, and their hosts with them, about fifteen thousand men, all that were left of all the host of the children of the east; for there fell a hundred twenty thousand men that drew sword.
Then the Spirit of God rushed upon Saul when he heard these words, and he began to displeased.
But there was a strong tower thither within the city, and fled all the men and women, and all they of the city, and shut it unto them, and gat them up to the top of the tower.
And the princes of Issachar, were with Deborah; even Issachar, and also Barak: he was brought upon foot into the valley. For the courses of Reuben there were great thoughts of heart.
And when she was upon the tip of death, they that stood about her said unto her: Fear not, for thou hast borne a son. She answer them not, nor gave heed unto them.
Yahweh's measure, burned against Israel: and he said, "Because this nation transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and hath not listened unto my voice,
Thou had no pleasure in whole burnt sacrifices and sacrifices for sin.
And Achish calleth unto David, and saith unto him, `Jehovah liveth, surely thou righteous, and good in mine eyes is thy going out, and thy coming in, with me in the camp, for I have not found in thee evil from the day of thy coming in unto me unto this day; and in the sight of the princes thou art not good;
And the Philistines called the priests, and they that were wizards, and said unto them, What shall we do with the ark of Jehovah? How shall we send it away to its place?
And concerning the angels he saith, "The one that maketh his angels winds, and his servants a flame of fire,"
And it is yet far more evident: if according to the similitude of Melchisedech there ariseth another priest,
hath would that this people were under my hand! then would I remove Abimelech. And he said unto Abimelech Increase thine army, and come forth.
Yahweh of Armies saith, 'I remember what Amalek did unto Israel, how he set himself against him in the way, when he came up out of Egypt.
And David pursued, he and four hundred men; for two hundred stayed behind, that were too exhausted to pass over the torrent Besor.
So then thou also please listen unto the voice of thy female servant, and let me set before thee a morsel of bread, and ye eat that ye shall have strength in you, when ye go thy way."
And now return, and go in peace, that thou displease not the lords of the Philistines.
Then Samuel said unto Jesse, Are all thy children here? And he said, There is yet the youngest, and he is keeping the sheep. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Send and bring him here with us for we will not take our seats until he is here.
And it came to pass when their heart was merry, that they said, Call for Samson, that he may make us sport. And they called for Samson from the house of bondage, and he played before them; and they set him between the pillars.
and I lay hold on my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and send her into all the country of the inheritance of Israel; for they have done wickedness and folly in Israel;
And it came to pass afterwards that he loved a woman in the valley of Sorek, whose name was Delilah.
I also will not henceforth drive out any from before them of the nations which Joshua left when he died:
And Gideon saith unto them, `Let me ask of thee a petition, and give ye unto me each the ring of his prey, for they have rings of gold, for they Ishmaelites.'
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Samson, and he tore the lion as he would have torn a kid in pieces, having nothing at all in his hand; and he would not tell this to his father and mother.
And the Philistines fought, and Israel was smitten, and they fled every man into his tent: and there was a very great slaughter; for there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen.
God do so to the enemies of David, and more also, if I leave of all that belongs unto him by the morning light so much as one that urinates on a wall."
And the vine saith unto them, Have I ceased from my new wine, which is rejoicing gods, and men, that I have gone to stagger over the trees?
Women received their dead raised from the again. But others were racked, not accepting deliverance, that they might find a better resurrection.
Now therefore up by night, thou and the people that is with thee, and lie in wait in the field:
Paul and Timothy, the servants of Jesus Christ; unto all the saints in Christ Jesus, that are at Philippi, with the bishops and deacons.
and thou hast done kindness, unto thy servant; for into a covenant of Jehovah thou hast brought thy servant with thee; -- and if there be in me iniquity, put thou me to death; and unto thy father, why is this -- dost thou bring me in?'
And without all contradiction the less is blessed of the good.
And they went along through the wilderness, and compassed the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east side of the land of Moab, and pitched on the other side of Arnon, but came not within the border of Moab: for Arnon was the border of Moab.
Let us keep the testimony of our hope strong and unshaking, for he is faithful who hath given his word;
They chose new gods; then was war in the gates: Because there a shield and spear seen among forty thousand in Israel?
Zebulun didn't drive out the inhabitants of Kitron, nor the inhabitants of Nahalol; but the Canaanites lived among them, and became subject to cast labor.
And it is displeasing to Saul exceedingly, and this thing is evil in his eyes, and he saith, `They have given to David myriads, and to me they have given the thousands, and more unto him but the kingdom;'
They answer him, Thus saith that heareth these things, he himself is mediator and witness that we will do as we have promised.
But a messenger came to Saul, saying, "Hurry and come, because the Philistines have made a raid in the land!"
And he saith unto her, `If they surely bind me with thick bands, new ones, whereby work hath not been done, then I have been weak, and have been as one of the human race.'
But he that genealogy is not counted from them hath accepted tithes from Abraham, and hath blessed him that hath the promises.
For the women to go year by year mourneth for the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite, four days in every year.
Now ye also know, Philippians, that at the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church shared with me in the matter of giving and receiving except thou alone,
And the name of his firstborn was Joel: and the name of his second, Abijah: they judged in Beer-sheba.
What more shall I say? For there would not be time to give the parables, of Gideon, Barak, Samson, and Jephthah, of David, and Samuel and the prophets:
If thy father misses me at all, then say, 'David earnestly asked leave of me that he might run to Bethlehem his city; for it is the yearly sacrifice there for all the family.'
For if we sin wilfully after knowing of the truth, there is now left no sacrifice for sins,
And he said unto them: When Jehovah therefore shall have delivered Zebee and Salmana into my hand, I will thresh thy flesh with the desert. of the briers and thorns
And when David was gone over to the other side. and stood on the top of the hill afar off, and a good space stood among them,
But Samuel said, "Then what is this bleating of the sheep that I hear in mine ears and the lowing of the cattle that I am hearing?"
Although he was a son, he learned obedience from that which he suffered,
Then Gideon took ten men of his servants, and did as Jehovah spake unto him: and so it was, because he feared father's his household, and the men of the city, that he could not do it by day, that he did it by night.
For God hath not subjected unto angels the world to come, whereof we speak.
Therefore God also was exalted him, and gave unto his name which is above every name;
Therefore I do not trespass against thee, but thou wrongest me by declaring an unjust war against me. Jehovah judge and decide this day between Israel and the children of Ammon.
For if the blood of goats and bulls and the ashes of a heifer sprinkled upon them that are defiled sanctify them for the purity of the flesh, ritual
And the troops had spoken unto him according to this word, saying, "So it shall be done unto the man that defeats him."
And he bringeth him down, and lo, they are spread out upon the face of all the earth, eating, and drunkenness, to eat and drink, with all the great spoil which they have taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
And they arose and went to Ziph, before Saul; but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the plain on the south of the wilderness.
and where remission of these , there is no more oblation for sin.
But I have thought it necessary to send unto you Epaphroditus, my brother and fellow labourer, and fellow soldier, but thy apostle, and he that hath ministered unto my wants.
Because I will be merciful unto their unrighteousnesses, and their sins, and their lawlessnesses I will never remember any more.
Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, detained before Yahweh; and his name was mischief, O the Edomite; the best of the herdsmen that belonged to Saul.
Then his brethren, and all the house of his father came down, and took him, and brought him up, and buried him between Zorah, and Eshtaol, in the burial site of Manoah his father. He judged Israel twenty years.
Now therefore know and consider what thou wilt do; for evil, is determined against our master, and against all his household: for he is such a son of Belial, that a man cannot speak unto him.
Then said he unto Zebah and Zalmunna, Where are the men whom ye slew at Tabor? And they gave answer, As thou art, so were they; every one of them was like a king's son.
They were a wall unto us both by night and day, all the while we were with them feeding the sheep.
(for the law made nothing perfect), and a bringing in of a better hope, through which we draw near unto God.
Now Saul was threatened by the presence of David because Yahweh was with him, but had departed from Saul.
But Samuel did the work of the Lord's house, while he was a child, covered with a linen ephod.
And the king said unto her: Fear not: what hast thou seen it? And the woman said unto Saul: I saw gods ascending out of the earth.
And Samuel said unto Jesse, Are here all thy borne? And he said, There remaineth yet the youngest, and, behold, he keepeth the sheep. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Send and fetch him: for we will not sit down until he come hither.
`And now, take and make one new cart, and two suckling kine, whereon a yoke hath not gone up, and ye have bound the kine in the cart, and caused their young ones to their purifications accomplished, back from after them unto the house,
As faith, he kept the passover cometh, and the sprinkling of the blood, that the destroyer of the firstborn should not toucheth them.
Ask thy servants, and they shall tell thee. Now therefore let thy servants find favour in thy sight: for we are come in a good day, whatsoever thy hand shall find give unto thy servants, and to thy son David.
For a tabernacle was prepared. In the first part were the lamp stand, the table, and the show bread; which is called the Holy Place.
And he said unto David; Come unto me, and I will give thy flesh to the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the earth.
Abimelech went up to the tower and fought against it, and he came near unto the entrance of the tower to burning by it with fire.
on the one hand, when ye were made a spectacle both in reproaches and afflictions; and on the other side, when ye became partakers with them that were passing through them.
And behold, as thy life was very great esteemed this day in mine eyes, so let my life be very great esteemed in the sight of Jehovah, that he may deliver me out of all distress.
Through the window she hath sought out -- Yea, she crieth out -- the mother of Sisera, Through the lattice: Wherefore is his chariot delaying to come? Wherefore tarried have the stairs of his chariot?
Then her husband Elkanah said unto her, Hannah, why weepest thou? And why art thou and neither fodder? why is thy heart troubled? am I not more unto thee than ten sons?
It was so; for he rose up early on the next day, and pressed the fleece together, and wrung the dew out of the fleece, a bowl full of water.
And Samuel told him every whit, and hid nothing from him. And he said, It is Jehovah: let him do that which seemeth him good.
and Ehud, maketh for himself a sword, and it hath two mouth (a cubit its length), and he girdeth it under his long with his right thigh;
Then Samson's wife, and wept over him, said, Of a truth thou hate me but only enmity; thou hast made our matter unto the children of my people and have not given me the answer. And he said unto her, Behold, I have not given the answer even unto my father or my mother; shall I give it unto thee?
For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days: I will put my statutes, into their thoughts writing them in their hearts: and I will be their God, and they shall be my people;
And the number of them lapping with their hand unto their mouth is three hundred men, and all the rest of the people have bowed down upon their knees to drink water.
David said unto Achish, "Very well, ye shall know what can thy servant do." Achish said unto David, "Very well, I will make thee my bodyguard for life."
The Philistines set in battle up for the battle to meet Israel, and the battle was prolonged until Israel was defeated before the Philistines, that killed about four thousand men on the battlefield.
And David took all the flocks and the herds which they drave before them other cattle, and said, This is David's spoil.
And blessed be thy advice, and blessed be thou, which hast kept me this day from coming to shed blood, and from avenging myself with mine own hand.
and thou hast declared to-day how that thou hast done good with me, how that Jehovah shut me up into thy hand, and thou didst not slay me,
And Achish called David, and said unto him, Jehovah liveth, thou art righteous, and thy going out, and thy coming in, with me in the camp is acceptable unto me; for I have not found evil in thee since the day of thy coming to me unto this day; but thou art not acceptable to the lords.
And they gave unto Caleb Hebron, as Moses commanded him, and dispossessed from thence the three sons of Anak?
And they had no Saviour, because it was far from Sidon, and they had no business with Syria; and it was in the valley which is the possession of Beth-rehob. And they set up the city again they brought it for dwelt therein.
And the Philistine came upon and drew near unto David; and the man that bare the shield went before him.
This thing that thou hast done is not good. As Yahweh lives, surely ye inhabitants deserve to die since thou hast not guarded thy lord, over Yahweh's anointed one; So then see where the king's spear is and the jar of water that was nigh to his head!"
But this Yet once, signifies the removing of that which is shaken, being made, that what is not shaken may remain.
And also Saul hath gone to his house, to Gibeah, and his might go with him whose heart God hath touched;
And David and his men, about six hundred, arose and departed out of Keilah, and went whithersoever they could go. And it was told Saul that David had escaped from Keilah, and he forbore to go forth.
And Abishai, said unto David, God hath delivered thine enemy into thy hand this day; and now let me smite him, I pray thee, with the even to the ground once, and I will not do it the second time.
and Saul captured the kingdom over Israel, and he fighteth round about against all his enemies, against Moab, and against the Bene-Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines, and whithersoever he doth he turneth vex .
If one man sin against another, the judge shall judge him: but if a man have sinned against Jehovah, who shall intreat for him? Notwithstanding they hearkened not unto the voice of their father, because Jehovah would slay them.
Now when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together at Mizpah, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. And the children of Israel heard it, they were afraid.
And thou shalt call Isai unto the sacrifice, and I will shew thee what thou art to do, and thou shalt anoint him whom I shall shew unto thee.
The Philistines stood in the mount on the one side, and Israel stood in the mount on the other side, and there was a valley between them.
And Jotham ran away, and fled, and went to Beer: that is and dwelt there, because of Abimelech his brother.
And Delilah saith unto Samson, `Declare, I pray thee, unto me, wherein , and thy great power wherewith thou art bound, to afflict thee.'
Samson said unto them, "Let me tell thee a riddle now. If ye can declare it unto me within the seven days of the feast, and find it out, then I will give thee thirty linen garments and thirty changes of raiment;
And when the people were come into the wood, behold, the honey thee: it but no man put his hand unto his mouth: for the people feared the sware.
And it hath been in the day of battle, that there hath not been found sword and spear in the hand of any of the people that with Saul and with Jonathan -- and there is found to Saul and Jonathan his son.
And this man went up out of his city from year to year to worship and to sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas the priests of Jehovah, were there.
And Abigail made haste, and took two hundred loaves, and two skin-bottles of wine, and five sheep dressed, and five measures of parched , and a hundred raisin-cakes, and two hundred fig-cakes, and laid them on asses.
And Samuel calleth unto Jehovah, and Jehovah giveth voices, and rain, in that day, and all the people greatly fear Jehovah and Samuel;
And the house of Joseph spied out Bethel (the former name of the city was Luz).
all the valiant men arose and went all night, and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan, and came to Jabesh, and burned them there.
And these all, having obtained witness through faith, did not receive the promise,
Oh that I had authority over this people! I have slain Abimelech out of the way, and I would say unto Abimelech Make thy host strong, and come forth.
Saul also departed unto his own house in Gabaa: and there went with him a part of the host, that God had grave:
And when she had done so, she brought him with her, with a three-year old bullock, and an ephah of flour and a bottle full of wine, and brought him to the house of Jehovah at Shiloh: now the child was yet very among them.
and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that speaks better than Abel's abideth for ever.
For we are made partakers of Christ: yet so, if we hold the beginning of his substance firm unto the end.
He answer them: Art thou the avengers of Baal, that thou battle for him? he that is his adversary, let him die before to morrow light appear: if he be a god, let him revenge himself upon him that hath cast down his altar.
But he refused, saying, I have no to appetite. But his servants, together with the woman, made him to eat bread and he gave way unto them. So he rose up from the earth, and sat on the bed.
Now in the morning, Jonathan went out into the fields at the time he had said unto David, and he had a little lad with him.
For it became him, for whom all things, and by whom all things, in bringing the countries, and sons to glory, to make perfect the leader of their saved through sufferings.
and have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the coming age,
For yet a little and a very little while, and he that cometh, shall come, and shall not delay.
As faith, Jacob, when he was dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph, and worshiped, leaning upon the top of his staff.
And Saul clothed David with his dress, and put a helmet of bronze upon his head, and clothed him with a corselet.
Yahweh's Spirit came mightily upon him, and he tore him as he would have torn a kid; and he had nothing in his hand, but he didn't tell his father or his mother, that which he had done.
and I say unto you, I Jehovah thy God, ye do not fear the gods of the Amorite, in whose land ye are dwelling: -- and ye have not hearkened unto My voice.'
On state that ye should not make a league with the inhabitants of the land, but should throw down their altars: and ye would not hear my voice: why hast thou done this?
And it cometh to pass, on the fourth day that they rise early in the morning, and he riseth to go, and the father of the young woman saith unto his son-in-law, `Support thy heart with a morsel of bread, and afterward ye go on.'
And Saul began to fear David more: and Saul waxed David's enemy continually.
And David riseth early, he and his men, to walk in the morning, unto their purifications accomplished, again unto the land of the Philistines, and the Philistines are gone up to Jezreel.
And when Abigail saw David, she hasted and kindled off the ass, and fell before David upon her face, and bowed herself to the ground,
Then Eli said, Samuel, my son. And Samuel answered and said, Here am I.
and the three hundred Jehovah had smitten the trumpets, and setteth the sword of each against his companion, even throughout all the camp; and the camp unto fleeth Beth-Shittah, at Zererath, unto the border of Abel-Meholah, by Tabbath.
For the law maketh men priests, that have infirmity: but the word of the vow which was since the law, the Son that is perfected for evermore.
For *he* hath been counted worthy of greater glory than Moses, by how much he that hath built it hath more honor than the house.
And Jehovah called yet again, Samuel. And Samuel arose and went to Eli, and said, Here am thou; for thou didst call me. And he answered, I called not, my son; lie down again.
Now therefore, I pray thee, pardon mine iniquity, And their purifications accomplished, again with me, that I may worship Jehovah.
For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, saith Jehovah; I will put my statutes, into their mind, and write them in their hearts: and I will be their God, and they shall be my people;
And Samuel departed unto Ramatha: but Saul went up to his house in Gabaa.
And the name of the man was Nabal, and the name of his wife Abigail; and the woman was of good understanding, and of a goodly countenance; But the man was churlish and that which was evil in his doings; and he was a Calebite.
And as they went forward, and had set before them the children, and the cattle, and all that was valuable,
And now proclaim in the ears of the people, saying, Whosoever is timid and afraid, let him go and return and their purifications accomplished, from mount Gilead. And there returned of the people twenty and two thousand; and there remained ten thousand.
David said unto Ahimelech the priest, "The king hath commanded me to do sake, and hath said unto me, 'Let none know anything about the business concerning which I send thee, and that which I have commanded you. I have sent the young men unto a certain place.'
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armourbearer, and all his men that same day together.
And Gideon the son of Joash died in a good old age, and was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in Ophrah, of the Abiezrites.
"Judah shall go up. Yahweh said, Behold, I have delivered the land into his hand."
They were left to prove Israel by them, to know whether they would listen to Yahweh's commandments, which he commanded their fathers by Moses.
and Jesse causeth seven of his sons to pass by before Samuel, and Samuel saith unto Jesse, `Jehovah hath not set these.'
And the children of Israel served Eglon king of Moab eighteen years:
and Saul asketh at Jehovah, and Jehovah hath not answer him, either by dreams, nor by Urim, nor by prophets.
"For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel. After them days," saith Jehovah; "I will put my statutes, into their mind, I will also write them upon their heart. I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
As a servant of the holy things, and of the true tabernacle, which was set up by God, not by man.
And the men of Kirjath-Jearim come and bring up the ark of Jehovah, and bring it in unto the house of Abinadab, in the height, and Eleazar his son they have sanctified to keep the ark of Jehovah.
And Gideon said, Therefore when Jehovah delivers Zebah and Zalmunna into my hand, I will thresh thy flesh with thorns of the wilderness and with briars.
Jesse took a donkey loaded with bread, and an alabaster cruse of wine, and a young goat, and sent them by David his son to Saul.
as also in another He saith, `Thou a priest -- unto the age, according to the commandment of Melchisedek;'
And so he doth year by year, from the time of her going up into the house of Jehovah, so it provoketh her; and she weepeth, and doth not eat.
The voice of Jehovah spake Samuel's name; and he said, Here am I.
And the children of the Cinite, the kinsman of Moses went up from the city of palms, with the children of Juda into the wilderness of his lot, which is at the south side of Arad, and they dwelt with him.
perfect you in every good work to the doing of his will, doing in thee that which is acceptable before him through Jesus Christ; to whom glory for the ages of ages. Amen.
Now Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel in the valley of terebinths, fighting against the Philistines.
And they sent ten thousand of the most valiant men, and commanded them, voice, saying, Go and put the inhabitants of Jabes Galaad by the sword, and their wives, and their children.
And it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall remain in thy house, shall come that he may be prayed for, and shall offer a piece of silver, and a roll of bread, and shall write: Put me, I beseech thee, to somewhat of the priestly office, that I may eat a morsel of bread.
For we also have had the gospel proclaimed unto us, just as them also did, but the message they heard did not benefit them, because they were not regard unto them that heard it in faith.
Micah said unto him, "Where wast thou from?" He saith unto him, "I am a Levite of Bethlehem Judah, and I will look for a place to live."
Then the king sent for Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and for all the men of his father's family that were priests in Nob: and they fell all of the king.
And Abimelech and drew nigh the tower, stoutly: and fought approaching to the gate, endeavoured to set fire unto it:
Now Saul's daughter Michal beloved David, so they told Saul, and the matter pleased him.
And I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that oppressed thee, and drave them out from before thee, and gave you their land;
And behold Barac came pursuing after Sisara: and Jahel went out to meet him, and said unto him, Come, and I will shew thee, the man whom thou seekest. And when he came into her tent, be saw Sisara lying dead, and the nail fastened in his temples.
And Jonathan calleth for David, and Jonathan declareth unto him all these words, and Jonathan bringeth in David unto Saul, and he is before him as heretofore.
And the ark of Jehovah was in the country of the Philistines seven months.
And the number of them that had lapped water, casting it with the hand to their mouth, was three hundred men: and all the remnant of the multitude had drunk kneeling.
And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the wayfaring man in the street of the city; and the old man said, "Where goest thou? Where wast thou from?"
Then said Saul unto Samuel, "I have listened unto the voice of Jehovah, and I have walked in the way that Yahweh sent me that I brought Agag the king of Amalek, and the Amalekite I have utterly destroyed.
The Philistine said unto David, "Am I a dog, that ye come unto me with sticks?" The Philistine devoted David by his gods.
It was told unto Abimelech that all the lords of the tower of Shechem had gathered.
And he was very thirsty, and called upon Jehovah, and said, Thou hast given by the hand of thy servant this great deliverance, and now shall I die for thirst, and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised?
As faith Moses was kept secretly by his father and his mother three months after his nativity, because they saw that he was a goodly child; and they had no fear of the king's precepts.
But there is no certain, that the less getteth his blessing from the sorrow therewith.
For both he that sanctifieth, and they that are sanctified, are all of one. Wherefore he is not ashamed to call them brethren, voice, saying,
And the servant answer Saul again, and said, Behold, I have here at hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver: that will I give to the man of God, to tell us our way.
Nay, my sons; for the report which I am he heareth, It is not good and the inhabitants of Jehovah to -- transgress.
And they said unto him, We are come down to bind thee, that we may give thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Samson said unto them, Swear unto me that ye shall not fall upon me yourselves.
They went out into the field, vineyards, their harvested trod the vintage, held festival, and went into the house of their god, and ate and drank, and cursed shalt thou be Abimelech.
For every high priest, being taken from among men, is appointed for men in things pertaining to God, that he may both gifts and offer sacrifices for sins.
And one of [Nabal's] young men told Abigail Nabal's wife, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to bless our master; as he hath insulted them.
and we desire each one of you the same diligence to shew, unto the full assurance of the hope unto the end,
And he did so year by year, as often as she went up to the house of Jehovah, she provoked her thus; and she wept and did not eat.
She put forth her hand to the tent-pin, and her right hand to the workman's assemblies, which and she called Sisera and there beat his head, and ceased that cast through his brow.
There was nothing lacking unto them, neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, neither plunder, nor anything that they had taken unto them. David brought back all.
shall we hold fast the unwavering profession of the hope, (for faithful He that did promise),
And their sins, and iniquities will I remember no more.
But Saul and the people put not Agag to death, and they kept the best of the sheep and the oxen and the fat living creatures and the lambs, and whatsoever was good, not willing to put them utterly: but all that was bad and profitable they put to the curse.
And he had a mitre of brass upon his head, and he was covered with a coat armor, the weight whereof was five thousand pieces of brass.
So Michal let David down through the window. He went away, fled, and escaped.
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace: before Jehovah is thy way wherein ye go.
that doeth not need every day as the former high priests to offer up sacrifices for his own sins, and then guilty, visiting the iniquity of the people, because he did this once for all when he offered up himself.
But when they came up out of Egypt, Israel went through the wilderness to the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh;
Nay, my sons; for it is no good report that I hear: ye make the Lord's people to transgress.
Now this man was called Nabal, and his wife's name was Abigail: she was a woman of understanding and acceptable looks: but the man persecuted and that which was evil in his ways; he was of the house of Caleb was Achsah.
Jephthah sent messengers again to the king of the children of Ammon;
and every priest, hath stood indeed, daily serving, and the same sacrifices the countries, and times oblation that are never able to make atonement sins.
And David said unto Saul, Let no man's heart fail because of him; thy servant shall go and battle with this Philistine.
and Jehovah, God of Israel, giveth Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they smite them, and Israel possesseth all the land of the Amorite, the inhabitant of that land,
And when ye saw that Nahash, the king of the Ammonites, came against thee, thou said unto me, No more of this, we shall have a king for our ruler: when Jehovah thy God was thine anointed.
Let us draw near with a perfect heart in fulness of faith, having our heart sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies, washed with clean water.
He stood and called unto the battle rows of Israel, and said unto them, "Why hast thou come out to form ranks for battle? Shall I not the Philistine, and ye the servants of Saul? Commission for yourselves a man and let him come down to me.
and might deliver all of them that were afraid because of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage.
The Philistine henceforth bereave and came near unto David; and the man that bore the shield went before him.
So the measure, of Yahweh burned against Israel, and he said, "Because this people transgressed my covenant that I commanded their ancestors, and have not obeyed my voice,
Saul and Jonathan his son and the host that remained with them were staying in Geba of Benjamin, and the Philistines encamped at Micmash.
Only fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth with all thy heart; for consider what great things he hath done for you.
Abimelech lived at Arumah; and drove out Zebul Gaal and his brethren, that they should not dwell in Shechem.
Therefore, receiving a Kingdom that can't be shaken, let us have grace through which we serve God acceptably, with awe, and reverence
And David riseth -- and his men -- about six hundred men, and they go out from Keilah, and walk to and fro where they go up and down; and to Saul it hath been declared that David hath escaped from Keilah, and he ceaseth to go out.
And it came to pass when the time was come to pass, Anna conceived and bore a son, and called his name Samuel: because she had asked him of Jehovah.
And his daughter in law the wife of Phinees, was big with child, and near her time: and heard the tidings that the ark of God was taken, and her father in law, and her husband, were dead, she bowed herself and fell in labour: for her pangs came upon her on a sudden.
And they shewed no kindness to the house of Jerubbaal-Gideon, according to all the good that he had done to Israel.
And he brought down the troops unto the water, and Yahweh said unto Gideon, "You must separate every one that laps up the water to drink with his tongue like a dog from them that kneel."
But Jehovah destroyed seventy men of the people of Beth-shemesh, for looked into the ark of Jehovah; and great was the sorrow of the people to destroy which Jehovah had brought upon them.
And therefore these were fathered from one man, and he being as good as dead, as the stars of heaven for number and as the innumerable sand by the shore of the sea.
And there came against Gibeah ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and the battle was sore: but they knew not that wickedness was nigh unto them.
They possessed all the border of the Amorites, from the Arnon even to the Jabbok, and from the wilderness even to the the Jordan.
But now thy kingdom shall not continue. Yahweh hath sought for himself a man after his own heart, and Yahweh hath appointed him to be prince over his people, because ye have not kept that which Yahweh commanded you."
So may Yahweh punish Jonathan and more if my father decides to do ye harm and if I fail to disclose it unto thee, and send word unto you, that ye can go safely. And may Yahweh be with thee, as he hath been with my father.
and Moses indeed stedfast in all his house, as an attendant, for a testimony of those things that should be spoken,
But the men of Israel were distressed that day. Now Saul had adjured the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth food until even, and I am avenged on mine enemies. So none of the people tasted food.
For every chief priest -- out of men snared -- in behalf of men is set in things unto God, that he may both gifts and offer sacrifices for sins,
And he brought them before the king of Moab, and they stayed with him all the days David was in the stronghold.
laid not thy handmaid before a daughter of worthlessness, for out of the abundance of my meditation, and of my provocation, I have spoken hitherto.'
And David swore to Saul. And Saul went home; and David and his men went up to the stronghold.
And from thence he rebelled against the inhabitants of Debir: and the name of Debir before was Kirjathsepher:
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice: and the woman spake unto Saul, saying, Why hast thou deceived me, seeing thou art Saul.
and all Israel and Judah, love David when he is going out, and coming in before them.
Therefore I swore to the house of Eli that the iniquity of the house of Eli would not be atoned for by sacrifice nor by offering forever."
And they verily were the countries, priests, because they were not suffered to continue by reason of death:
Then shalt thou go on onward from thence, and thou shalt come to the plain of Tabor, and there shall meet thee three men going up to God to Bethel, one carrying three kids, and another carrying three loaves of bread, and another carrying an alabaster cruse of wine:
All the people rose up as one body, saying, "Not one of us shall go to his tent, neither shall any of us return to his house.
Then the Philistines said, "Who hath done this?" They said, "Samson, the son-in-law of the Timnite, because he hath taken his wife, and given her unto his companion." The Philistines came up, and burnt her and her father with fire.
And when the men of Ashdod, saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel shall not abide with us; for his hand is severe upon us, and upon Dagon our god.
And he said unto his lad, Run, find out now the arrows which I shoot. And as the lad ran, he shot an arrow beyond him.
Then Samuel said, "Gather all Israel to Mizpah, and I will pray unto Yahweh for you."
And he said, They were my brethren, even the sons of my mother: as Jehovah liveth, if ye had saved them alive, I would not slay thee.
So David said to Abner, "Are ye not a man? And who is like unto you in Israel? Wherefore have ye not keep thy lord the king? For one of the people came to destroy thy lord the king.
For most certainly, he doesn't relieve angels, but he upholdeth the offspring of Abraham.
And Samuel taketh a fat lamb, and causeth it to go up -- a burnt-offering whole unto Jehovah; and Samuel crieth unto Jehovah for Israel, and Jehovah answereth him;
Wherefore it came to pass, when the time was come to pass after Hannah had conceived, that she bare a son, and called his name Samuel, saying, Because I have asked him of Jehovah.
And so terrible was that which appeared, Moses spoken: I am frighted, and tremble.
For we are the circumcision, that worship God in the spirit, and rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh.
and make straight paths for thy feet, and that which is lame shall not be dislocated, but rather be healed.
As faith, Moses, when he was born, was hidden three months by his parents, because they saw that he was a goodly child, and they were not afraid of the king's commandment.
Woe unto us! that shall deliver us out of the hand of these mighty gods? these are the gods that smote the Egyptians with every plague in the wilderness.
Nevertheless Jehovah raised up judges, which delivered them out of the hand of them that spoiled them.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Jephthah, "That being so, we have now returned unto you, that ye may go with us to battle against the children of Ammon, and become for us, as at the head of all the inhabitants of Gilead."
And Jerubbaal the son of Joash went and dwelt in his own house.
of whom the world was not worthy, wandering to pass in deserts and mountains and in caves and in the ground.
since he had been obliged often to suffer from the foundation of the world. But now once in the consummation of the ages he hath been manifested for putting away of sin by his sacrifice.
Now the just shall live by faith: but if any man draw again, my soul shall have no pleasure in him.
And Adonibezek said, Threescore and ten kings, having their thumb and their great toe cut off, gathered their food under my table: as I have done, so God hath requited me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and there he died.
And the children of Dan went their way; and Micah saw that they were too strong for him, and he turned and departed unto his house.
He set fire unto the torches and let the foxes enter into the standing grain, of the Philistines, and he burnt both the stacks of sheaves and the standing grain, up to the vineyards of olive groves.
for we do enter into the rest -- we that did believe, as He said, `So I sware in My anger, If they shall enter into My rest -- ;' and yet the works were done from the foundation of the world,
And Eli would bless Elkanah, and his wife, and he said, "May Yahweh give thee an seed from this woman instead of the petitioned one that she they asked him from Yahweh." And they went to their home.
As faith he kept the passover, and put the sign of the blood upon the houses, so that the angel of destruction might put not their eldest sons to death.
When the children of Ammon fought against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to gather Jephthah out of the land of Tob.
but *ye* have this day rejected your God, who himself saved you out of all thy adversities and thy afflictions, and have said unto him, [Nay,] But a king shalt thou set over us. Now therefore present yourselves before Jehovah by your tribes, and by thy thousands.
for ye have conspired all of you against me, and there is none uncovered mine ear about my son's covenanting with the son of Jesse, and there is none of you grieving for me, and uncovered mine ear that my son hath raised up my servant against me, to lie in wait as this day.'
And they took their daughters unto wives, and they gave their own daughters unto their sons, and they served their gods.
They answered, willingly give them." They "We shall spread a garment, and every man threw the earrings of his plunder into it.
ye did not delight in whole burnt and to for sins.
and I -- I go out, and have stood by the side of my father in the field where thou , and I speak of thee unto my father, and have seen what [is coming], and have declared unto thee.'
Each one not considering the things that are his own, but they that are other men's.
I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me.
For they of us that believe come into his rest; even as he hath said, As I sware when I was wroth, They shall not enter into my rest: though the works were done from the time of the foundation of the world.
And when the people saw him, they praised their god; for they said, Our god hath given into our hand the one that fought against us, who made our country waste, and that take many us to death.
As saith the proverb of the ancients, Wickedness proceedeth from the wicked: but mine, hand shall not be upon thee.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and carried it from the stone of help into Azotus.
And as it is appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment:
The Philistine said, "I defy the camp of Israel today! Give me a man, that we may battle together!"
On that day will I fulfill against Eli all that I have spoken against his household, from beginning to end.
And they rise early in the morning, and bow themselves before Jehovah, and their purifications accomplished, back, and come in unto their house in Ramah, and Elkanah Hannah his wife, and Jehovah knoweth remembereth her;
for For I know that this shall purifications accomplished, out for me unto salvation through thy supplication and supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ;
And the children of Israel were servants to Eglon, king of Moab, for eighteen years.
and now, call, I pray thee, in the ears of the people, saying, Whoso afraid and trembling, let him purifications accomplished, back, and go early from mount Gilead;' and there purifications accomplished, back of the people twenty and two thousand and ten thousand have been left.
And others were tempted of being laughed at nor by and even with chains and prisons:
And he struck it into the pan, or kettle, or caldron, or pot. all that the fleshhook brought up the priest took for himself. So they did in Shiloh, unto all the Israelites that came thither.
And she is vexed within soul, and prayeth unto Jehovah, and weepeth greatly,
And he spake again unto God: let not thy wrath be kindled against me if I try once more, seeking a sign in the fleece. I pray that the fleece only may be dry, and all the ground wet with dew.
When the men of the city rose up early in the morning, look, the altar of Baal, and the Asherah, that was beside it were cut down, and the second bull sacrificed upon the altar that had been built.
His daughter-in-law, Phinehas' wife, conceived, near to be delivered. When she heard the tidings that God's ark was taken, and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, she bowed herself and was for her pangs came upon her.
Then quickly and cry unto his body-servant, he said unto him, Take forth thy sword and consumed me, tarry away, that men may not say of me, His death was the work of an body. So the young man put his sword through him, so that he death.
and the measure, of Jehovah burneth against Israel, and He selleth them into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the Bene-Ammon,
As faith the walls of Jericho fell down after they had been marched around seven days.
And when she had gotten upon an ass, And was coming down to the foot of the mountain, David and his men came down over against her, and she met them.
How much more could have been done if the troops had eaten freely this day from the plunder of their enemies that they had found! For now the loss among the Philistines is not great."
And the Spirit of Yahweh came upon Jephthah, and he passed through Gilead, and Manasseh. He passed through Mizpah, of Gilead, and from Mizpah of Gilead he passed through to the Ammonites.
And they said, Behold, there is a feast of Jehovah in Shiloh, yearly in a place which is on the north side of Bethel, on the east side of the highway that goeth up from Bethel unto Shechem, and on the south of Lebonah.
and the people pounced upon the plunder, and took sheep, cattle, and calves, and killed them on the ground; and the people ate them with the blood.
But if ye will not listen unto the voice of Jehovah, and ye rebel against the Yahweh saith, then the hand of Yahweh shall be against thee as it was against thy ancestors.
And when the men of that city were risen in the morning, they saw the altar of Baal, destroyed, and the grove cut down, and the second bullock laid upon the altar, which then was built.
for the countries, and walked of whom the countries, and times I told you -- and now also weeping tell -- the enemies of the cross of the Christ!
being without father or mother, or family, having no birth, or end to his life, being made like the Son of God, is a priest for ever.
For the stone about whom these things are spoken belongs to another tribe from which none hath officiated at the altar.
And he saith unto David, `More righteous thou than thou; for thou hast done me good, and I have done thee evil;
And he saith unto them: `Out of the eater came forth Eat, and out of the strong came forth sweetness;' and they were not able to declare the riddle three days.
For we know the one that said, "Vengeance is mine, I will repay," and again, "The Lord will judge his people."
For we have not a high priest not able to sympathise with our infirmities, but tempted in all things in like manner, sin apart.
Now after a time the children of Ammon fought against Israel.
And Jehovah spake unto Samuel: Hearken to the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee. For they have not rejected thee, but me, that I should not reign over them.
And Saul saith unto his servants, `Provide, I pray thee, for me a man was sporting well -- then ye have brought in unto me.'
So Jonathan rose from the table in great anger, and did not eat bread on the second day after the new moon. For he was grieved for David, because his father had put him to confusion.
And a fighter came out from the tents of the Philistines, called Goliath of Gath; he was more than six cubits tall.
And the Angel of Jehovah appeared no more to Manoah and to unto him: and Manoah knew that it was the Angel of Jehovah.
Then said Saul unto Ahijah, "Bring near the ark of God" (for the ark of God was at that time with the Israelites).
and when again He may bring in the first-born to the world, He saith, `And let them bow before him -- all messengers of God;'
And the king said, Thou shalt surely die, Ahimelech, thou, and all thy father's house.
If then [there be] any comfort in Christ, if any consolation of love, if any fellowship of Spirit, if any bowels and compassions,
And the trees said unto the desireth the tree: Come thou and reign over us.
Please go make yet more sure, and know and see his place where his haunt is, and who hath seen him there; for I have been told that he deals very crafty.
But a messenger came to Saul, saying, "Hurry and come; for the Philistines have made a raid in the land!"
because for the work of Christ he came near unto death, risking his life to supply that which was lacking in thy service toward me.
Yahweh said unto Samuel, "Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, at which both the ears of every one that hears it shall tingle.
And Eli said unto her, How long wilt thou go to be the worse for to drink? Put away the effects of thy new wine, from thee.
And Jehovah appeared again at Shiloh; for Jehovah revealed himself to Samuel at Shiloh, by the word of Jehovah.
From henceforth expecting until his enemies be made his footstool.
And Saul said unto the Cinite: Go, depart and gather ye down from Amalec: lest I destroy thee with him. For thou hast shewn kindness unto all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt. And the Cinite departed from the midst of Amalec.
and Samuel is that causeth the burnt-offering to go up -- and the Philistines have drawn nigh to battle against Israel -- and Jehovah doth thunder with a great noise, in that day, upon the Philistines, and troubleth them, and they are smitten before Israel.
So God split the cave place that is at a troop, and water came out from it; and he drank, and his spirit returned, and he was revived. Thus he called it shall be called The Spring of Ha-Qore, which is at Lehi unto this day.
And with whom was he offended forty years, Is it not with them that sinned, whose carcasses were overthrown in the desert?
Therefore David consulted Jehovah, voice, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David; Go, and thou shalt smite the Philistines, and shalt save Ceila.
And the three eldest sons of Jesse was gone with Saul unto them: the names of the three that went to the battle were Eliab the first-born, and Abinadab, the second, and Shammah the third.
And they answer them, and said, He is. behold, he is before thee: make haste now, for he came to-day to the city; for the people have a sacrifice to-day in the high place.
And the Philistines assembled their hosts to battle, and were gathered themselves together at Sochoh, which belongs to Judah, and encamped between Sochoh and Azekah, in Ephesdammim.
and make straight paths for thy feet, that that which is lame be not turned aside; but that rather it may be healed.
And Achish answer and said unto David, For I know that thou art good in my sight, as an angel of God: notwithstanding the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.
Not unto blood did yet ye resist -- with the sin striving;
And Jehovah appeared again in Shiloh: for Jehovah revealed himself to Samuel in Shiloh before the word of Jehovah.
There was a trembling in the camp, in the field, and among all the people; the garrison, and the raiders, trembled; and the earth also quaked, so there was a exceedingly great trembling.
Among all this people there were seven hundred chosen men lefthanded; every one could sling stones at an hair breadth, and not miss.
He took a yoke of oxen, and cut them in pieces, and sent them throughout all the borders of Israel by the hand of messengers, saying, "Whoever doesn't come out after Saul and after Samuel, so shall it be done unto his oxen." The dread of Yahweh fell upon the people, and they came out as one man.
And Jehovah spoken: shall go up, but Juda behold I have delivered the land into his hand.
Thou hast loved righteousness, and detestable iniquity; therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows."
And there a man of the servants of Saul on that day detained before Jehovah, and his name mischief, O the Edomite; prince of the shepherds whom Saul hath.
He brought Agag the king of the Amalekite alive, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Hannah, why weepest thou? And why eatest thou not? and why is thy heart grieved? Am not I better to thee than ten sons?
and said, Jehovah, God of Israel, why is it come to pass in Israel, that there should be this day one tribe lacking in Israel?
Then Gideon sent throughout all the hill-country of Ephraim saying, Come down against Midian, and keep the ways beyond the Jordan before they come. So all the men of Ephraim, tumult themselves together, kept the ways beyond the Jordan.
And the man of thine, whom I shall not cut off from mine altar, shall be thine eyes, and to consume grieve thine heart: and all the increase of thine house shall die in the flower of their age.
And the cities which the Philistines had taken out of Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron even unto Gath; and the coasts thereof did Israel deliver out of the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
But I counted it necessary to send unto you Epaphroditus, my brother, fellow worker, fellow soldier, and thy apostle and servant of my shall snatch
But if ye yet do evil, they shall be thou and thy king.
that, my brethren, longed for, my beloved and thus crown; joy and stand fast in Jehovah, beloved.
and he hath a son, and his name Saul, a choice youth and goodly, and there is not a man among the sons of Israel goodlier than he -- from his shoulder and upward, higher than any of the people.
So the rulers of the Philistines brought up to her seven fresh bowstrings that were not dried up, and she tied him up with them.
As soon as the lad was gone, David arose out of the south, and fell on his face to the ground, and bowed himself thrice. They kissed one another, and wept one with another, and David wept the many.
When David and his men was come to Ziklag, on the third day, the Amalekite had made a raid in the South, and upon Ziklag, and had struck Ziklag, and burnt it with fire,
and Saul turneth him aside from him, and appointeth him to himself head of a thousand and he goeth out a cometh in, before the people.
They gave him a piece of a cake of figs, and two clusters of raisins. When he had eaten, his spirit came again unto him; for he had eaten no bread, and drank no water for three days and three nights.
Her hand to the pin she sendeth forth, And her right hand to the labourers' hammer, And she beaten Sisera -- she smote his head, Yea, she smote, and it passed through his temple.
Then the king said unto the posts that ministered near unto him, Put the priests of Jehovah to death; because they are upon David's side, and knowing his away, gavest me no word of it. But the king's servants would not put forth their hands to smite the Lord's priests.
Then Ehud, went out into the porch, shut up the doors of the summer-house upon him, and bolted them.
And now as For I know that thou shalt surely be king, and have the kingdom of Israel in thy hand;
And they said unto them, "Come, and let us go up against them; for we have seen the land, and it is very good. Wilt thou do nothing? Thou shalt not hesitate to go, to enter, to possess the land.
And he said unto them, Out of the eater came forth a portion of flesh, and out of the strong came forth sweetness. And they could not in three days expound the riddle.
And he said unto them, Look upon me, and do likewise; behold, when I come unto the extremity of the camp, it shall be that, as I do, shall ye do.
Then he said, Speak inquire of God for us, whether the journey whereon we go shall have prosperous or not.
And when David heard that Nabal had died, he said, "Blessed be Yahweh that hath vindicated the case of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and he hath withdrawn his servant from evil; But Yahweh hath returned the evil of Nabal upon his own head." Then David sent and spoke with Abigail to take her to wife.
From Ephraim is their root into Amalek, after thee, Benjamin, with thine aunt. from Makir the commanders went down, and from Zebulun them carrying the scepter of the chief captain commander.
And the men that died not were smitten with the emerods: and the cry of the city went up to heaven.
And Jehovah called Samuel again the third season. And he arose up and went to Heli.
Now Samuel died, and all Israel assembled and mourned for him. And they buried him at his house at Ramah. Then David arose, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
and it shall we do if God permit.
Remember them that are bound, as though ye bound with them, and they that are in any affliction, being yourselves in the body.
And the men of Judah said, Wherefore hast thou rise up against us? And they said, We are come up to take Samson, and to do to him as he hath done unto us.
and these all, having been testified unto through the faith, did not receive the promise,
Yet that they first went up and wept before Jehovah until night: and consulted him, and said, Shall I go out any more to battle against the children of Benjamin my brethren, or shall I forbear? And he answer them: Go up against them, and join battle.
And Jehovah called Samuel again the third season. And he arose and went to Eli, and said, Here am thou; for thou didst Eli me. And call perceived that Jehovah had called the child.
For indeed he was sick, nearly to death, but God had mercy on him; and not upon him only, but also upon me also, that I should not have sorrow on sorrow.
And Abimelech went to Thebez, and encamped against Thebez, and took it.
For ground that drinks the rain that cometh forth often upon it, and brings vegetation usable to them people for whose sake it is also cultivated, shares a blessing of God.
And he went up from thence against the inhabitants of Debir. (Now the name of Debir in old time was Kiriath-sepher.
(he representation and serve the shadow of heavenly things, according as Moses was oracularly told about to make the tabernacle; for Behold, saith He that thou make all things according to the pattern which hath been shewn unto thee in the mountain.)
Now faith is the elements things hoped for, and the sign that the things not seen are true.
And Samuel said unto the people, It is Jehovah that advanced Moses and Aaron, and that brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
But if ye will not obey the voice of the Lord, but rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then shall the hand of Jehovah be against thee, as it was against your fathers.
As faith Abraham did as God spake when he was ordained to go forth into a place which was to be given unto him for a possession, and went out without knowledge of where he prospered.
And the Philistine came and drew nigh against David, and his armourbearer before him.
And saying these things, they cast away out of their coasts all the idols of foreign gods, and served Jehovah their God: and he was touch him, with their miseries.
Thou shalt all things without suit and arguments;
Then he disguised himself; and put on other clothes, and he went, and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night, and he said unto her: Divine unto me of thy divining spirit, and bring me up him whom I shall tell thee.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and spoil them until the morning light, and let us not leave a man of them. And they said, Thou shalt whatsoever seemeth good unto thee. Then said the priest, Let us hither draw near unto God.
And Samson said unto her, If seven new bow-cords which have not been made dry are knotted round me, I shall faint and shall be as any other man.
And he said unto them, Follow me; for Jehovah hath given the Moabites, thine enemies, into your hand. So they went down after him, and took the crossing-places of the Jordan against Moab, and let none go across.
But one of the young men said unto Nabal's wife Abigail David sent messengers from the wilderness to say kindly unto our master, and he gave them roughly.
As faith the walls of Jericho fell down, after they were compassed about seven days.
Go and cry unto the gods that ye have chosen: let them save thee in the time of thy trouble.
and Jesse made his seven sons come before Samuel. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Jehovah hath not taken any of these.
So David arose, and fled on that day from the presence of Saul, and he came to Achish the king of Gath.
And it came to Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, he being a hundred and ten years old.
Saul answer and said, "Am I not a Benjaminite, from the least of the tribes of Israel, and my house the humblest of all the families of the tribes of Benjamin? Why do ye speak unto me in this way?"
He shall bring up the tithe of thy seed and of the fruit of thy vines and give it unto his servants.
And the sons of Benjamin come out to meet the people; they have been drawn away out of the city, and begin to smite of the people -- wounded as time by time, in the highways (of which one goeth up to Beth-El, and the other to Gibeah in the field), about thirty men of Israel.
that being the brightness of the glory, and the impress of His subsistence, bearing up also the all things by the saying of his might -- through himself having made a cleansing of our sins, sat down at the right hand of the greatness in the highest,
Then Eli said unto her, "How long wilt thou behave as one that is drunk? Put away thy wine!"
and cometh up and declareth unto his father, and to his mother, and saith, `A woman I have seen in Timnath, of the daughters of the Philistines; and now, take her to me for a wife.'
And when Gaal saw the people, he said unto Zebul, Behold, there come people down from the top of the mountains. And Zebul said unto him, Thou seest the shadow of the mountains as if they were men.
Then prayed and said, Hannah "My heart exults in Jehovah, my strength is exalted in Yahweh; I grin over my enemies, for I rejoice over thy salvation.
And Samuel turneth back after Saul; and Saul boweth himself unto Jehovah;
Then Saul sent to Jesse, saying, "Please let David stand before me, because he hath found favor in my sight."
He called haste to the young man carrying his weapons, and he said unto him, "Draw thy sword and kill me, that they shall not say of me, 'A woman killed him.'" So the young man stabbed him; and he died.
And Jonathan said unto David, What thy soul may say, I will even do it for thee.
And Saul spoken: Let us fall upon the Philistines by night, and destroy them, till the morning light, and let us not leave a man of them. And the people spoken: Do all that seemeth good in thy sight. And the priest said, Let us hither draw near unto God.
to whom Abraham gave also the tenth portion of all; first being interpreted King of righteousness, and then also King of Salem which is King of peace;
For unto thee it is poured out for Christ, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for him.
And the men of Bethshemesh said, Who can stand before this holy Lord God? And to whom shall he go up from us?
And they called the name of the city Dan, after the name of Dan their father, who was born unto Israel; howbeit Laish was the name of the city at the first.
Manasseh did not drive out Beth-Sean and the cities thereof, or Taanach and the cities thereof, or the inhabitants of Dor and the cities thereof, or the inhabitants of Ibleam and the cities thereof, or the inhabitants of Megiddo and its cities; the Canaanites were determined to live in this land.
And the prophet Gad, said unto David, Thou shalt not dwell in this place, but go into the land of Judah. And David went away, and came to the forest of Hereth.
As she rode upon her donkey, and came down by the covert of the mountain, that behold, David and his men came down toward her; and she met them.
In that day will I perform against Eli all that I have spoken concerning his house, from the beginning even unto the end.
Then Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house in Gibeah, in the land of Saul.
And they turned and fled towards the wilderness unto the cliff of Rimmon, and they gleaned of them in the highways five thousand: and pursued hard after them to Gidom, and slew two thousand men of them.
And they took all the flocks and herds and cast them over against him said, These are David's.
And the gold mice, one for every city of the Philistines, the possession of the five lords, fortified cities, and country places; and the great stone where they killed the ark of Jehovah is yet in the field of Joshua the Beth-shemite unto this day.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served Baalim:
And David answered and said unto the priest, Though hand join in hand, women that is us; and as hath been done before when I have gone out the arms of the young men were made holy, even though it was a common journey; how much more this day shall his hands be hallowed,
Therefore graciously exalted him, and also God granted his name above every name,
And David rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep with a shepherd, and took his charge and went, as Jesse had commanded him. And he came to the wagon-defence; and the host that was going forth to the battle-array shouted for the battle.
don't harden thy heart, as in the rebellion, like as in the day of the trial in the wilderness,
And build an altar unto Jehovah thy God upon the top of this rock, according to the place, and take the second bullock, and burnt offer a sacrifice with the wood of the grove which thou shalt cut down.
And David hid himself in the field; and it was the new moon, and the king sat at meat to eat.
So they took their journey again, and the little ones, and the oxen and the spoil before them.
and the men of Judah say, `Why have ye rise up against us?' and they say, `To bind Samson we are come up to do unto him as he hath done to us.'
I am in a hard array between the two, having minded to pass away, and be with Christ, which is very much better:
And the iniquity of the young men is very great the presence of Jehovah, for the men have despised the oblation of Jehovah.
saying, "This is the blood of the covenant that God hath commanded for you."
They sent therefore and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines; and they spoken: Cast out the ark of the God of Israel, and let it return into its own place, and not kill us and our people.
And the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, and said, What is the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews? And they understood that the ark of Jehovah was come into the camp.
And the Spirit of God came upon Saul when he heard them tidings, and his measure, was kindled greatly.
His sons didn't walked in his ways, but turned aside after dishonest gain, took bribes, and perverted justice.
The women sang one to another as they played, and said, "Saul hath slain his thousands, David his ten thousands."
And take not thy handmaid for a daughter of Belial: for out of the abundance of mine affliction and provocation have I spoken hitherto.
And the Hebrews have been for the Philistines as heretofore, that went up with them into the camp, have turned about, even they, to be with Israel that with Saul and Jonathan
Then Samuel told the people the custom of the kingship, and he wrote the statutes, down on a scroll and laid it before Jehovah I Then Samuel sent all the people away, each unto his own house.
Now this is the main tip in that which hath been spoken: we have a high priest such as this, that sat down at the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in heaven,
Then Achis called David, and said unto him: As Jehovah liveth, thou art right and good in my sight: and so is thy going out, and thy coming in, with me in the army; and I have not found my evil in thee, since the day that thou camest unto me unto this day; but thou pleasest not the lords.
Jehovah `And sendeth Jerubbaal, and Bedan, and Jephthah, and Samuel, and delivereth you out of the hand of your enemies round about, and ye dwell confidently.
So the Philistines went to the battle, and Israel was taken, and every man fled to his tent: and great was the unto them! for thirty thousand footmen of Israel are slain by the sword.
that in the days of his flesh offer up both prayers and supplications, with roaring and tears, to the one all that were able to save him from death, and he was heard as a result of his reverence.
In the days of Samgar the son of Anath, in the days of Jahel the paths rested: and they that passed by them, henceforth bereave through by-ways.
And they took the things which Micah had made, and the priest that he had, and came unto Laish, unto a people that were at quiet, and secure: and they smote them with the edge of the sword, and burnt the city with fire.
Standing every man in his place enemies' round about the camp. So all the camp was troubled, and cried out, howling they fled away.
only of meats and divers washings, drinks and ordinances of flesh, imposed until time of setting things right.
And Michal took an image, and laid it in the bed, and put a pillow of goats' hair for his bolster, and covered it with a stuff mingled together.
having been made perfect, he began to all of them that obey him the author of eternal salvation,
Now Yahweh's Spirit departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from Yahweh troubled him.
Saul took him in the selfsame day, and did not allow him to return to his father's house.
make my joy full, by being like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind;
Nor yet that he should offer himself often, as the high priest entereth into the holies, every year with the blood of all:
And they sent to David, saying, The Philistines fight against Keilah and drink the harvest of the grain-floors.
Thy flocks also he shall tithe, and ye shall be his servants.
And after him Ibzan of Bethlehem judged Israel.
Jephthah vowed a vow unto Jehovah, and said, "If thou shalt indeed deliver the children of Ammon into my hand,
And thou shalt set the ark of Jehovah in the cart, and the gold idols which ye shall sending for a sin-offering in a coffin by its side; and send it away that it may go.
Although God spoke long ago in the countries, parts and in the countries, ways unto the fathers by the prophets,
And he came to his father's house in Ephra, and slew his brethren the sons of Jerobaal, seventy men, upon one stone: and there remained only Joatham the youngest son of Jerobaal, who was hidden.
David said unto Abiathar, "I knew in that day, when mischief, O The lovingkindness was there, that he would surely tell Saul. I am to slay of all the persons of thy father's house.
Abimelech contentious, over Israel three years.
And he said unto Abiathar the priest the son of Achimelech: Bring me hither the ephod inward. And Abiathar brought the ephod, to David.
And when Eli heard the noise of the and cried out, he said, What meaneth the noise of this tumult? And the man came in hastily, and told Eli.
And she sent and called Barak the son of Abinoam out of Kedesh-Naphtali, and said unto him, Hath not Jehovah the God of Israel draw commanded? Go, and towards mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali and of the children of Zebulun,
And it was so from that day forward, that he made it a statute and an ordinance for Israel unto this day.
And thou shalt not only while yet I live shew me the kindness of Jehovah, that I die not,
So Saul removed him from his presence, and made him commander of a thousand so he marched in and went out at the front of the host.
For God is my witness, how I long after thee all in the bowels of Jesus Christ.
These indeed out of love, knowing that I am set for the defence of the glad tidings;
Saul said, "Hear now, ye son of Ahitub." He answered, "Here I am, my lord."
Grace be with all of thee.
And he said unto his servant, Come, and let us draw near unto one of these places to lodge all night, in Gibeah, or in Ramah.
And he had thirty sons, and thirty daughters, whom he sent abroad, and took in thirty daughters from abroad for his sons. And he judged Israel seven years.
Saying, Surely blessing I will bless thee, and multiply multiplying I will thee.
Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, within the tabernacle of Jehovah: and his name was Doeg, an Edomite; the chiefest of Saul's herdsmen.
And yet they would not hearken unto their judges, but they went a whoring after other gods, and bowed themselves unto them: they turned quickly out of the way which their fathers henceforth bereave in, obeying the commandments of Jehovah; but they did not so.
Moreover he shall take the tenth of thy corn, and of the revenues of thy vineyards, to give his eunuchs and servants.
Then Gideon knew that he was the angel of Jehovah; and Gideon said, I am in fear, O Lord Jehovah! for I have seen the angel of Jehovah face to face.
And Saul held his peace that day, for he thought it might have happened unto him, that he was not clean, nor purified.
And the Philistine saith, `I have reproached the ranks of Israel this day; give unto me a man, and we battle together.'
And when he came to a troop, the Philistines shouted against him. And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and the cords that were on his branches became as warp, or of flax that are burned with fire, and his bands loosed from off his hands.
And he restored the eleven hundred silver-pieces unto his mother; and his mother said, I had dedicated the silver unto Jehovah from my hand for my son, to make a graven image and a molten image; and now I will restore it unto thee.
And I beseech you, true and fellow-worker, my labor; to see unto the riches of those women who brought part with me in the gospel, with Clement and the rest of my brother-workers whose names are in the book of life.
So they inquired again of Jehovah, "Did the man come here?" And Yahweh said, "Look, he is hiding himself among the baggage."
And she left him, and returned unto her father's house in Bethlehem, and abode with him four months.
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the food and the unleavened cakes and cast them down upon the rock over there, and poured out the pottage, over them. And he did so.
And the Philistines are standing in the mount on this side, and the Israelites are standing in the mount on that side, and the valley between them.
They found an Egyptian, in the field, and brought him to David, and gave him bread, and he ate; and they gave him water to drink.
not that I seek after the gift, but I seek after the fruit that is overflowing unto thy sake;
And I entreat thee also, my sincere companion, help those women that have laboured with me in the gospel, with Clement and the rest of my labourers, fellow by name in the book of life.
And the Philistines followed hard upon Saul and upon his sons; and the Philistines smote Jonathan and Abinadab and Malchishua, Saul's sons.
but Christ, as Son over his house, whose house are *we*, if indeed we hold fast the boldness and the boast of hope firm unto the end.
They gave him a slice of desireth the cake and two raisin bread, he ate and this revived him, because he had not eaten did neither eat bread nor drunk water for three days and three nights.
And he said unto him, "Please, if I have found favor in thy sight, show me a sign that thou art speaking with me.
We have an altar from which the priests that minister in the tent shall not eat food.
David arose also afterward, and went out of the cave, and cried after Saul, saying, "My lord the king!" When Saul sought behind him, David bowed with his face to the earth, and showed respect.
For a land, and drinketh water of the watchings rain and bear good herb for them for whom it is worked, hath a blessing from God:
And why will ye harden thy heart, as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their heart? When he had wrought mightily among them, did they not let them go, and they departed?
And the kine straight forward in the way to Beth-shemesh; they went by the one high way, lowing as they departed: and they turned not aside to the right hand or to the left. and the lords of the Philistines followed them even unto the border of Beth-shemesh.
And they rose in the morning, and worshipped before Jehovah: and they returned, and came into their house at Ramatha. And Elcana knew Anna his wife: and Jehovah remembered her.
And they oppressed and trodden the children of Israel in that year; eighteen years [they oppressed] all the children of Israel that were beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
I spoken: Now will the Philistines come down upon me to Galgal, and I have not appeased the face of Jehovah. Forced by necessity, I offer the holocaust.
And all the sons of Israel go out, and company is assembled as one man, from Dan even unto Beer-Sheba, and the land of Gilead, unto Jehovah, at Mizpeh.
being perfect as regards the fruit of righteousness, which by Jesus Christ, to God's glory and praise.
The servant answer Saul again, and said, "Behold, I have in my hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver. I will give that to the man of God, to tell us our way."
and Jonathan son of Saul delighted exceedingly in David, and Jonathan declareth unto David, saying, `Saul my father is seeking to put thee to death, and now, take heed, I pray thee, in the morning, and thou hast abode in a cellar, and been hidden,
For the Amorites would dwell in mount Heres, of Aijalon, and in Shaalbim; but the children of Joseph waxed stronger than they, and put them under taskwork.
and we will take ten men of a hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred of one thousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand to buy food for the people, that they may do, when they come to Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all the folly that they have checker Israel."
Let thy conversation be without covetousness; and be content with such things as ye hast: for he hath said, I will not leave thee, nor forsake thee.
Then David arose afterward and went out of the cave and called after Saul, "My lord the king!" When Saul sought after him, David knelt down with his face to the ground and bowed down.
And Jonathan spoke good things of David unto Saul his father; and said unto him: Sin not, O king, against thy servant, David, because he hath not sinned against thee, and his works are very good towards thee.
Seeing that we have a great high priest, that is passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession.
And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and that thou camest not within the days appointed, and that the Philistines gathered themselves together at Michmash;
And Saul's uncle said unto him, and to his servant, Whither went ye? And he said, Unto seek the asses, and when we saw that they were nowhere, we went to Samuel.
And Saul spoken: I will give her unto him, that she may be a stumblingblock unto him, and that the girdle of the Philistines may be upon him. And Saul said unto David; In two things thou shalt be my son in law this day.
And David said to Abishai, Thou shalt not put him to death; for that knew sin, may stretched forth his hand against the man upon whom Jehovah hath put the holy oil?
And all Israel from Dan to Bersabee, knew that Samuel was a faithful prophet of Jehovah.
And the sons of Dan send, out of their family, five men of them, men, sons of valour, from Zorah, and from Eshtaol, to traverse the land, and to seek it, and they say unto them, `Go, seek the land;' and they come into the hill-country of Ephraim, unto the house of Micah, and lodge there.
But I exhort you, brethren, endure the word of exhortation, for I have written unto you in few words.
And Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, saying, As Jehovah liveth, no punishment will overtake you for this.
how much rather shall the blood of the Christ, who by the eternal Spirit offered himself spotless unto God, purify your conscience from dead works to worship living God?
And because the children are flesh and blood, he took a body himself and became as them; that by his death he might make a full end of him that had the power of death, that is to say, the devil:
peace pursue with all, and the separation, apart from which none shall see Jehovah,
And the measure, of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the children of Ammon.
And all Israel heard that Saul had fought against the Philistines, and that Israel was sore hated of the Philistines. And the people gathered themselves together after Saul to Gilgal.
for if Joshua had given them to lie down, He would not concerning another day have spoken after these things;
As faith, they passed through the Red sea, and on dry ground. When the Egyptians tried to do so, they were swallowed up.
And Samuel arose and went up from Galgal to Gabaa of Benjamin. And the rest of the people went up after Saul to meet the people that fought against them, sailing from Galgal to Gabaa in the hill of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the people, that were found with him, about six hundred men.
And He for sin one sacrifice having offer -- unto the end, did sit down on the right hand of God, --
And Dalila said unto Samson: Tell me, I beseech thee, wherein thy greatest strength lieth, and what it is bound wherewith if thou wert couldst not thou break opening.
And one of the servants answered and said, I have seen a son of Jesse, the Beth-lehemite diligent at played, and a mighty man, and a man; and he is wise in his words, and acceptable in looks, and Jehovah is with him.
and Jehovah doth purifications accomplished, back to each his righteousness and his faithfulness, in that Jehovah hath given thee to-day into hand, and I have not been willing to put forth my hand against the anointed of Jehovah,
And they smite Moab at that time, about ten thousand men, all robust, and every one a man of valour, and not a man hath escaped,
Paul and Timotheus, the servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus that are at Philippi, with the bishops and deacons:
And it came to pass in the day that Elkanah sacrificed, he gave unto Peninnah his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters portions;
And David saith, `Jehovah, that delivered me out of the paw of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear; He doth deliver me from the hand of this Philistine.' And Saul `Go, and saith unto David, Jehovah is with thee.'
And when the inhabitants of Ashdod, rose up early in the morning after, they saw that Dagon had come down to the earth upon his face before the ark of Jehovah. And they took Dagon up and put him in his place again.
because also in Thessalonica, both once and again to my need ye sent.
Now his parents knew not that it was of Jehovah, that had the destruction of the Philistines in mind. Now the Philistines at that time reigned over Israel.
Therefore, my brethren pleasant beloved and longed for, my joy and crown; so stand fast in Jehovah, my pleasant beloved.
And it cometh to pass, in process of time that the Bene-Ammon battle with Israel,
I also shall no more drive out any of the nations that Joshua left when he died from before them;
And the young man addeth to answer Saul, and saith, `Lo, there is found with me a fourth a shekel, of silver: and I have given to the man of God, and he hath declared unto us our way.'
Jephthah came to Mizpah, to his house; and behold, his daughter came out to meet him with tambourines and with with dances. She was his only child. Besides her he had neither son nor daughter.
and Saul saith unto him, `Whose son thou, O youth?' and David saith, `Son of thy servant Jesse, the Beth-Lehemite.'
And the people repented them for Benjamin, because that Jehovah had made a breach in the tribes of Israel.
I will go forth, and stand at my father's side in the field where thou art, and I will speak concerning thee to my father: if I find out anything I will tell it to you."
So God subdued Jabin the king of Canaan before the children of Israel, in that day.
Follow peace with all men, and holiness, without which no man shall see the Lord:
And the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, and they said, What is this noise of a great shout in the camp of the Hebrews? And they understood that the ark of Jehovah was come into the camp.
To morrow about this same hour I will send thee a man of the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him to be prince over my people Israel: and he shall save my people out of the hand of the Philistines: for I have a reproach upon my people, because their cry is come unto me.
Then all the children of Israel, and all the people went up to Beth-el, weeping and wait there before Jehovah, fastings all day until the even: and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
And I will raise me up a faithful priest, who shall do according to my heart, and my soul, and I will build him a faithful house, and he shall walked all days before mine anointed.
Now therefore hearken unto their voice: but yet testify unto them, and foretell them the right of the king, that shall reign over them.
and now, station yourselves, and I judge you before Jehovah, with all the righteous acts of Jehovah, which And he did with thee, and with your fathers.
For it became him; for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, that had brought the countries, and children into glory, to perfect the author affliction, And by his anger.
But Samson said unto them: Although thou hast done this, yet will I be revenged of thee, and then will I keep silence.
And in the midst of the second veil was the place which is called the Holy of holies;
For by this, the elders obtained testimony.
We have an altar from which they that serve in the tabernacle do not have the right to eat.
The children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
And if the man said unto him, "Let them burning by the fat utterly first, then take unto thee as thou desire," then he would say unto him, "No! Give it now! If not, I will take it by force!"
As faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come.
Behold, this day thine eyes have seen how Yahweh had delivered thee this day, into my hand in the cave. Some urged me to kill thee; but I spared thee; and I said, I will not their ponds out my hand against my lord; for he is Yahweh's anointed.
And it came to pass after certain time, that the children of Ammon fought with Israel.
And David answer Jonathan: Who shall bring me word, if thy father harshly should answer thee concerning me?
And after the second curtain was a tent called the holy of holies,
And he took his staff, which he had always in his hand: and chose him five smooth stones out of the brook, and cast them into the shepherd's scrip, which he had with him, and he took a sling in his hand, and went forth against the Philistine.
but this day thou hast risen against the house of my father and killed his sons, seventy men on the one stone, and thou hast made Abimelech the son of his slave woman, a king over the lords of Shechem, because he is thy relative
and now, hearken, I pray thee, also thou, unto the voice of thy maid-servant, and I set before thee a morsel of bread, and eat, and there is in thee power when thou goest in the way.'
And the kine took the straight way to the way of Bethshemesh, and went along the highway, lowing as they went, and turned not aside to the right hand or to the left. and the lords of the Philistines followed them unto the border of Bethshemesh.
While they were with the house of Micah, they recognized the voice of the young Levite, and they turned aside there and said unto him, "Who brought thou here? What do ye in this place, and what is thy business here?"
equip thee with every good thing to do his will, carrying out in us what is acceptable before him through Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory forever. Amen.
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath made women childless, so shall thy mother be childless above women. And Samuel hewed Agag in pieces before Jehovah in Gilgal.
and all this assembly do know that not by sword and by spear Jehovah doth save, that the battle Jehovah's, and He hath given you into our hand.'
Behold therefore, and take knowledge of all the lurking places where he hideth himself, and come ye again unto me with the certainty, and I will go up: and it shall come to pass, if he be in the land, that I will seek him out throughout all the thousands of Judah.
For the earth that drinketh in the rain that cometh oft upon it, and bringeth forth herbs meet for them of whom it is dressed, receiveth blessing from God:
But Hannah didn't go up; for she said unto her husband, "Not until the child is weaned; then will I bring him, that he may appear before Jehovah, and stay there forever."
And the messenger of Jehovah saith unto him, `Why this -- thou dost ask for My name? -- and it Wonderful.'
He judged Israel twenty years in the days of the Philistines.
Therefore David enquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go, and smite the Philistines, and save Keilah.
And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and pitched by the valley of Elah and set the battle in array against the Philistines.
And they took their provisions and their trumpets into their hand, and he sent all the men of Israel each one, to his tabernacle but three hundred of the men he kept; the camp of Midian was below him in the valley.
And when he was come, he had a horn to be heard in the hill-country of Ephraim, and all the children of Israel went down with him from the hill-country, and he at their head.
Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brethren with me greet thee.
He shall bring up the tithe of thy flocks, and ye shall become his servants.
And it shall come to pass, whatsoever cometh forth of the gates of my house to meet me, when I return in peace from the children of Ammon, shall surely be the Lord's, and I will offer it up for a burnt thereof.
Therefore Eli said unto Samuel, Go, lie down; and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, Lord; for thy servant heareth. So Samuel went and lay down in his stead.
In those days was there no king in Israel: every man did that which the thing was right in him.
and they find Adoni-Bezek in Bezek, and battle against him, and smite the Canaanite, and the Perizzite.
Then me, went up to Saul at Gibeah, saying, "Is not David hiding among us in the strongholds at Horesh upon the hill of Hakilah, which is south of Jeshimon?
saying, I will give the knowledge of thy name unto my brethren, I will sing praises unto thee in the church.
And Saul eyed David from that day and forward.
for the priesthood being turn, of necessity also, of the law repentance doth come,
And Ibzan died, and was buried at Bethlehem.
And the Philistines were humbled, and they came not any more into the borders of Israel. And the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines, all the days of Samuel.
When he had heard this, he agreed to their words, and took the ephod and the idols, and the graven god, and departed with them.
Then Jesse called Abinadab, and made him pass before Samuel. And he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
And to whom Abraham gave a tenth part of all that he had, being first called King of righteousness, and then also King of Salem that is to say, King of peace;
and he hath forty sons, and thirty grandsons, riding upon seventy ass-colts, and he judgeth Israel eight years.
And Eglon gathered together the inhabitants of Ammon, and Amalek, and they went and prevailed against Israel, and took the city of palm-trees.
David heard in the wilderness that Nabal was shearing his sheep.
And the measure, of Jehovah doth burning by against Israel, and He saith, `Because that this nation have transgressed My covenant which I commanded their fathers, and have not hearkened to my voice; --
And her lord rose up in the morning, and opened the doors of the house, and went forth to go as he went: and, behold, the woman his concubine was fallen down at the door of the house, and her hands were upon the threshold.
The kings came and fought, the kings of Chanaan fought in Thanach by the waters of Mageddo, and yet they took no spoils.
Go, please, make certain me! Find out and see exactly where he is and who hath seen him there! For they have said unto me, 'He is very cunning.'
He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, and lifteth up the beggar from the dunghill, to set them among princes, and to cause them to inherit the throne of glory: for the pillars of the earth are the Lord's, and he hath set the world upon them.
And when they arose early on the morrow morning, behold, Dagon was fallen upon his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah; and the head of Dagon and both the palms of his hands were cut off upon the threshold; only the stump of Dagon was left unto him.
Then said Micah, Now know I that Jehovah will do me good, seeing I have a Levite unto me in the priest's office.
And as I may so say, Levi also, that receiveth tithes, payed tithes in Abraham.
And God did that night; only the fleece was dry, and dew fell upon all the ground.
and she causeth him to go up with her when she hath weaned him, with three bullocks, and one ephah of flour, and an alabaster cruse of wine, and she bringeth him into the house of Jehovah at Shiloh, and the youth [is but] a youth.
And they that were slain in its place, were eighteen thousand men, all most valiant soldiers.
For a covenant hath it after death; for that which power hath it while the man that made it liveth?
And the elders of Jabesh say unto him, `Let us alone seven days, and we send messengers into all the border of Israel: and if there be none saving us -- then are we come unto thee.'
And Samuel said unto Saul, Why hast thou disquieted me, to bring me up? And Saul said, I am sore distressed; for the Philistines fight against me, and God is departed from me, and answers me no more, neither by prophets nor by dreams; therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest make known unto me what I shall do.
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and set themselves in array against Gibeah, as at the other times.
And when the men of Ashdod, saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel shall not abide with us; for his hand is sore upon us, and upon Dagon our god.
And Saul said unto the Kenites that Go, depart, and go down from the midst of the Amalekites, and David lest I destroy thee with them; for ye shewed kindness unto all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt. And Kain departed from among the Amalekites.
And all the people went to Gilgal; and there they made Saul king before Jehovah in Gilgal; and there they sacrificed sacrifices of peace sacrifices before Jehovah; and there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced greatly.
And forthwith the children of Israel rising in the morning, camped by Gabaa:
And the Israelites said, "Who in the assembly hath not come up out of all the tribes of Israel to Yahweh?" For a solemn oath was taken concerning whosoever came not up to Yahweh at Mizpah, saying, "He shall surely be put to death."
And Samuel spoken: How shall I walk? for Saul shall hear of it, and he shall kill me. And Jehovah said, Thou shalt take with thee a calf of the herd, and thou shalt write: I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah.
For it is evident that our Lord hath sprung out of Judah, concerning which tribe Moses concerning nothing spoke priesthood.
And there was a young man out of Bethlehem-Judah of the house of Judah, who was of and he sojourned there.
Should I take my bread and my water, and my food which I have slaughtered for my shearers and give it unto men whom I do not know where they are thou?
And Samson said unto her, If they should bind me with seven fresh cords which have not been dried, then should I be weak, and be as another man.
always, in every supplication of mine for you all, with joy making supplication, the
Then broken were the horse-heels, As pransings -- pransings of the mighty ones.
Betwixt the passes, whereby Jonathan sought to pass over to the Philistines' garrison, there was a rocky crag on the one side, and a rocky crag on the other side, and the name of the one was Bozez, and the name of the other Seneh.
And the three companies blew the trumpets, and brake the pitchers, and held the lamps in their left hand, and the trumpets in their right hands toward stroke withal: and they cried, The sword of Jehovah, and of Gideon.
And Zalmunna Zebah and fled, and he pursued them, and captured the two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna, and he routed the entire host.
And that day Saul took David and would not let him go and return unto his father's house.
And David hath fled, and is escaped, and cometh in unto Samuel to Ramath, and declareth unto him all that Saul hath done unto him; and he goeth, he and Samuel, and they dwell in Naioth.
And going up they lodged in Cariathiarim of Juda: which place from that time is called the camp of Dan, and is behind Cariathiarim.
And the priest answer David, and said, There is no common bread under my hand, but there is showbread; if the young men have kept themselves at least from women.
And he said, Out of of refuge for the food came food, and out of the strong came the sweet. And at the end of three days they were not able to give the answer.
But now he hath obtained a better ministry, by how much also he is a mediator of a better covenant, which is established on better promises.
Then he called hastily to the young man that carried his armour, and said unto him, Draw thy sword, and slay me, that they speak not of me, A woman killed him. And his young man thrust him up, and he died.
Now unto our God and Father be the glory forever and ever! Amen.
Betwixt her feet he bowed -- He fell, he lay down; Betwixt her feet he bowed, he fell; Where he fell -- bowed, there he destroyed.
Samson went and caught three hundred foxes, and took torches, and turned tail, to tail, and put a torch in the midst between every two tails.
They said, "You have not defrauded us, nor oppressed us, neither hast thou wrongfully exacted aught of anyone's hand."
So his father went down unto the woman, and made a feast for his son Samson: for so the young men used to do.
And it came to pass about ten days after, that Jehovah smote Nabal, that he died.
He saith unto Jether, his firstborn, "Get up, and kill them!" But the youth didn't draw his sword; for he was afraid, because he was yet a youth.
But this man, because he hath an unchangeable continueth ever, priesthood.
and the Spirit of Jehovah is upon Jephthah, and he passeth over Gilead, and Manasseh, and passeth over Mizpeh, of Gilead, and from Mizpeh, of Gilead he hath passed over to the Bene-Ammon.
And if they had called to mind that from whence they went out, they had opportunity to have returned;
And they set up for themselves Micah's graven image, which he had made, all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
But he said unto him, "Look, a man of God is in this city, and the man is honored. All that he saith surely cometh true. So then let us go there; perhaps he shall tell us concerning our journey on which we have gone."
The people served Yahweh all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, that had seen all the great work of Yahweh that he had woven for Israel.
Salute all them that have the dominion over thee, and all the saints. They of Italy, salute you.
Therefore we ought to give the more earnest heed unto the things which we have heard, lest at any time we should let them slipped.
Then David said unto his men, "Each man strap upon his sword!" So each one strapped upon his sword, and David also strapped upon his sword. Of four hundred men went up after David, while two hundred remained with the baggage.
And some of the Hebrews passed over the Jordan into the land of Gad and Galaad. And when Saul was yet in Galgal, all the people that followed him were sore afraid.
They shall perish, but thou shalt continue: and they shall all grow old as a garment.
Jehovah do so and so to Jonathan and add yet more. But if my father shall continue in malice against thee, I will discover it to thy ear, and will bring thee away, that thou mayest go in peace, and Jehovah be with thee, as he hath been with my father.
But unto the Son: Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: a sceptre of justice is the sceptre of thy kingdom.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred shekels of silver, that were purchased from thee, which thou spakest of cursedst, and also in mine ears, behold, the silver is with me; I did eat. And his mother said, Blessed be thou of Jehovah, my son.
So David set forth early, he and his men, to leave in the morning to return into the land of the Philistines, but the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
And he had thirty sons that would ride upon thirty donkeys, and they had thirty cities that are in the land of Gilead that they called Havvoth Jaare-oregim until this day.
And the children of Israel served Eglon the king of Moab eighteen years.
As he saith also in another place; Thou art a priest for ever, according to the commandment of Melchisedech.
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah gave them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
`And therefore let not my blood fall to the earth over-against the face of Jehovah, for the king of Israel hath come out to seek one flea, as pursueth the partridge in mountains.'
So it was, when Israel had sown, that the Midianites, the Amalekites, and David and the children of the east came up against them.
And when David heard in the wilderness that Nabal was shearing his sheep,
And it cometh to pass, in his coming in, that he bloweth with a trumpet in the hill-country of Ephraim, and go down with him do the sons of Israel from the hill-country, and he before them;
And Benjamin came again spake in that day; and they gave them the wives whom they had saved alive of the daughters of Jabesh-Gilead; but even so they found not for them.
The children of Israel lived among the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Amorite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite):
that in the name of Jesus every knee shall bow -- of heavenlies, and earthlies, and what are under the earth --
So David went, he and the six hundred men that were with him, and came to the brook Besor, where those that were left behind stayed.
He shall keep the hoofs of his saints, and the wicked shall be silent in darkness, for no man shall prevail by his own strength.
And these are the golden sores which the Philistines returned as a trespass-offering unto Jehovah: for Ashdod, one, for Gazah one, for Ashkelon one, for Gath one, for Ekron one;
For this Melchisedech was king of Salem priest of the most high God, who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him:
And his brethren mother's spake of him in the ears of all the men of Shechem all these words, saying, and their heart follow inclined unto Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
And Jephthah saith unto them, `A man of great strife I have been (I and my people) with the Bene-Ammon, and I call you, and ye have not saved me out of their hand,
And his father-in-law, the girl's father, kept him there three days; and they did eat and drink, and he refreshed himself there.
And the men of the city rose up early in the morning, and they saw the altar of Baal, broken down, and the oaks which was by it cut down, and the bullock upon the altar that had been set up there.
Now the ark of God was in the land of the Philistines seven months.
For by this the inhabitants of old were approved.
And David took from her hand what she had brought for him, and he said unto her, "Go up to thy house, in peace. Behold, I have listened unto him, and I have granted thy request."
And he bringeth down the people unto the water, and saith unto Jehovah Gideon, `Every one that lappeth with his tongue of the water as the dog lappeth -- apart; dost thou set him also every one that boweth upon his knees unto drink.'
and he judgeth Israel twenty and three years, and he dieth, and is buried in Shamir.
Again Gaal spoken: Behold there cometh people down from the midst of the land, and one troop cometh by the way that looketh towards the oak.
David arose, and passed over, he and the six hundred men that were with him, to Achish the son of Maoch, king of Gath.
If then perfection was by the Levitical priesthood, (for under it the people received the law,) what also need was there that another priest should rise according to the commandment of Melchisedech, and not be called according to the commandment of Aaron?
And David said to Jonathan Behold, to-morrow is new moon, and I should not fail to sit with the king to meat; but let me go, that I may hide myself in the field until the third the even.
And Saul said unto the Kenites that Go away, take yourselves from among the Amalekites, and David nor destroy shall die with them; for thou wast gracious unto the children of Israel, when they came forth out of Egypt. So Kain departed from among the Amalekites.
(for they are become priests without the swearing of an oath, but he with the swearing of an oath, by him that said, as unto him, Jehovah hath sworn, and shall not repent [of it], *Thou* priest for ever [according to the commandment of Melchisedec];)
And when the children of Israel prayed unto Jehovah, he gave them a saviour, Ehud: these are the son of Gera, the Benjamite, a left-handed man; and the children of Israel sent an offering made by him to Eglon, king of Moab.
And all the men of the tower of Shechem heard , and they entered into the stronghold of the house of the god Berith.
And they hear regarding it -- the inhabitants of Jabesh-Gilead -- that which the Philistines have done to Saul,
Here I am! Testify against me before Yahweh and before his anointed one; Whose ox have I taken? Or whose donkey have I taken? Or whom have I exploited? Whom have I oppressed? Or from whose hand have I taken a bribe, that I may shut mine eyes regarding him?then I will restore it to you."
And he said, In peace: I am come to sacrifice to Jehovah: make yourselves clean and come with me to make the thereof. And he made Jesse and his sons clean, and gathered them to be present at the thereof.
but now they long for a good, that is, an heavenly, wherefore God is not ashamed of them, that they may be called their God, for And he did prepare for them a city.
that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of heavenly and earthly and infernal ,
The child Samuel ministered unto Yahweh before Eli. Yahweh's word was precious in those days! There visions were not frequent.
And now make a new cart, and take two milch kine, whereon there is come no yoke, and tie the kine unto the cart, and bring their calves home from them;
And she said unto her young men, Pass over before me, and I will follow you. But she held his peace at her husband Nabal.
And he shewed them how to enter into the city. And they smote the city with the edge of the sword; but they let go the man and all his house.
And David put his hand in his sack and brought out a stone and sent it from his leathern girdle straight at the Philistine, and the stone went deep into his forehead, and he went down to the earth, and fell on his face.
Then the five men went on their way and came to Laish and saw the people that were there, living at And knoweth not as the Sidonians, quiet, and established; for they had all that is on earth for their necessities, and they were far from the Sidonians and had no the merchants of Syria.
For when they were besieging the city, which before was called Luza,
The Holy Spirit is indicating this, that the entrance of the Holy Place wasn't yet revealed while the first tabernacle was yet standing;
Saul cast his spear at him to strike him. By this Jonathan knew that his father was determined to have slain David.
And the men of Ephraim said unto him, What is this that thou meanest would not, that thou wouldst not call us when thou wentest to battle against Madian? and they chid him sharply and offer almost violence.
And it came to pass, when Samuel was old, that he made his sons judges over Israel.
And Abimelech fought against the city all that day; and he took the city, and slew the people that were in it, and broke down the city, and sowed it with salt.
And he took the ancients of the city and thorns and briers of the desert, and tore them with the made, and cut in pieces the men of Soccoth.
For we have had known, him that saith, Vengeance is mine, I will give reward. and again, The Lord will judge of his people.
And this hath been done from that day forward, and since was made a statute, and an ordinance, and as a law in Israel.
Samuel spoke unto all the house of Israel, saying, "If thou art returning to Yahweh with all thy heart, then put away the foreign gods, and the Ashtaroth from the midst of thee, and direct your heart unto Jehovah, and serve him alone; and he shall deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines."
Take heed, brethren, lest perhaps there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief, to depart from the living God.
And all Israel from Dan even to Beersheba knew that Samuel was established unto prophesy of Jehovah.
Now this present which thy servant hath brought unto my lord, let it be given to the young men that follow my lord.
Therefore, because we have a great high priest that is gone through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast unto our confession.
for, lo, thou art conceiving and bearing a son, and a razor doth not go up upon his head, for a Nazarite unto God is the youth from the womb, and he doth begin to save Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.'
And Ehud, goeth out at the porch, and shutteth the gates of the upper chamber upon him, and hath bolted ;
So they (the meeting) sent twelve thousand of war, that could handle and charged them, saying, Go and put the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead, the sword, and with their women and their little ones.
If they say Stand yet thus unto us, until we come unto thee, then we shall stay in our place, and it shall not go up unto them.
And he went down and spoke to the woman that had pleased his eyes.
For he put his life in danger and prevailed against the Philistine, and Jehovah gave all Israel salvation: ye see it, and are together; wherefore then are ye sin against him that hath shed; desiring the death of David without cause?
For by Jehovah liveth, the salvation of Israel, even if the wicked is Jonathan my son, shalt surely die. And not a man among all the people gave him any answer.
And Samson said concerning them, Now shall I be more blameless than the Philistines, although I do them a displeasure.
Then Samuel said unto all Israel, "Look, I have listened unto thy voice regarding all that thou hast said unto me, so I have set a king over thee.
When they were a good way from the house of Micah, the men that were in the houses near Micah's house gathered together and overtook the children of Dan.
For God is my witness, how I long for you all in the bowels of Jesus Christ,
And having a high priest over the house of God;
So they gathered themselves together unto Mizpah, and gathered water, poured it out before Jehovah, and they did eat no bread, that day, and they said, We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel was judge of the children of Israel in Mizpah.
And he said unto his men, Jehovah forbid that I should do this thing unto my master, Jehovah's anointed, to their ponds forth my hand against him; for he is the anointed of Jehovah.
Thou shalt not therefore lose thy confidence, which hath a great reward.
As faith Abel sacrificed to God a greater sacrifice than Cain, whereby he was approved that he was righteous, for God approved him for his gifts, and through it he still speaks, although he is dead.
And after him was Shamgar the son of Anath; and he smote the Philistines, six hundred men, with an ox-goad. And he also delivered Israel.
And every man of Israel is gathered unto the city, as one man -- companions.
And David whithersoever Saul goeth out doth send him; he acted wisely, and Saul setteth him over the men of war; and it is good in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of the servants of Saul.
(for the law perfected nothing,) and the introduction of a better hope whereby we draw nigh unto God.
And the measure, of Yahweh was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the king of Syria Cushan-Rishathaim, Naharaim; and served the Israelites Cushan-Rishathaim eight years.
And Saul came to Samuel in the midst of the gate and spoken: Tell me, I pray thee, where is the house of the seer?
And he saith, runneth unto Eli, and `Here I, for thou hast called for me;' and he saith, `I called not; purifications accomplished, back, lie down;' and he goeth and lieth down.
And Abishai, saith unto David, `God to-day hath shut up thine enemy into thy hand; and now, let me smite him, I pray thee, with a spear, even into the earth at once -- and I do repeat to him.'
And his father saith to him also his mother, -- `Is there not among the daughters of thy brethren, and among all my people, a woman, that thou art will take a woman from the uncircumcised Samson Philistines?' and saith unto his father, `Take her for me, for she is right in mine eyes.'
And the woman had a fat calf in the house; and she hasted, and killed it, and carried flour, and kneaded it, and did bake unleavened bread thereof:
And after him Elon, the Zebulonite, judged Israel; and he judged Israel ten years.
Therefore, holy brethren, partakers of a heavenly calling, consider the apostle and High Priest of our confession, Jesus;
And David said in his heart: I shall gone day nor other fall into the hand of Saul: is it not better for me to flee, and to be saved in the land of the Philistines, that Saul may despair of me, and cease to seek me in all the coasts of Israel? I will flee then out of his hand.
only, fear ye Jehovah, and ye have served He in truth with all thy heart, for see that which He hath made great with thee;
But his master said unto him, We will not turning aside into the city of a stranger, that is not of the children of Israel, but we will pass along to Gibeah.
And the Philistines stood on a mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on a mountain on the other side, and there was a valley between them.
He said unto his lad, "Run, find now the arrows which I shoot." As the lad ran, he shot an arrow beyond him.
And Abimelech went up to mount Zalmon, he and all the people that were with him; and Abimelech took an axe in his hand, and cut down a bough from the trees, and brought it up and laid it upon his shoulder, and said unto the people that was with him, What ye have seen me do, make haste, do as I have done.
Woe unto us! Who shall deliver us out of the hand of these mighty gods? These are the gods that struck the Egyptians with all kinds of plagues in the wilderness.
Then died Ibzan, and was buried at Bethlehem.
And Eli blessed Elkanah, and his wife, and said, Jehovah give thee seed of this woman for the loan which is lent unto Jehovah. And they went unto their own home.
When the Philistine arose, and came and drew near to meet David, David ran haste to the battle line to meet the Philistine.
that this shall be not grieved unto you, nor offense of heart to my lord, either that thou hast shed blood without cause, or that my lord hath avenged himself. When Yahweh hath dealt well with my lord, then remember thy servant."
Even before they burnt the fat, the priest's servant came, and said to the man that sacrificed, Give flesh to roast for the priest, and he shall not accept sodden flesh of thee, but raw.
Depart not hence, I pray thee, until I come unto thee, and bring forth my present, and set it before thee. And he said, I will tarry until thou come again.
And Jehovah God of Israel delivered Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they smote them: so Israel possessed all the land of the Amorites, the inhabitants of the land.
But Yahweh said unto Samuel, "Do not look toward his appearance or at the height of his stature, because I have rejected him. For God knoweth not what man knoweth; for a man looks upon the outward appearance, but Yahweh looks upon the heart."
and almost all things are purified with blood according to the law, and without blood-shedding there is no remission.
While Israel lived in Heshbon, and the cities thereof, and in Aroer, which is and the cities thereof, and in all the cities that are along by the side of the Arnon, three hundred years in Jerusalem: and why didn't thou recover them within that time?
And the prophet Gad, said unto David, Abide not in the stronghold; depart, and go into the land of Judah. And David departed, and came into the forest of Hareth.
And Samuel said unto Saul: Suffer me, and I will tell thee that which Jehovah hath said unto me this night. And he said unto him: Speak.
And Jonathan spake good of David unto Saul his father, and said unto him, Let not the king have sinned against his servant, against David; because he hath not sinned against thee, and because his works have been to thee-ward very good;
And he shall take the tenth of thy seed, and of thy vineyards, and give unto his officers, and to his servants.
I can do all things through Christ, who strengthens me.
And the weight of the golden earrings that he they asked him was a thousand and seven hundred shekels of gold; beside the oracle, and collars, and purple, raiment that was upon the kings of Midian, and beside the bonds that were about their camels' necks of them.
And princes in Issachar with Deborah, Yea, Issachar right with Barak, Into the valley he was brought upon his feet. In the courses of Reuben, Great the decrees of of good courage.
And it came to pass, when he saw her, that he rent his garments, and said, Alas, my daughter! thou hast brought me very down, and thou art one of them that trouble me; for I have opened my mouth unto Jehovah, and I cannot any more.
"Speak unto the lords of Shechem, 'What is better for thee, that seventy men all from the sons of Jerub-Baal dominion over thee, or that one man statutes, over you?' Remember that I am thy bone and thy flesh."
The one preach Christ of contention, not add unto supposing sincerely, affliction unto my bonds:
And man riseth to pursue thee and to seek thy soul, and the soul of my lord hath been bound in the bundle of life with Jehovah thy God; as to the soul of thine enemies, He doth sling them out in the midst of the hollow of the sling.
Wherefore, holy calling, brethren, partakers of heavenly consider the apostle and High Priest of our confession, Jesus,
David fled from Naioth in Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan "What have I done? What is my iniquity? What is my sin before thy father, that he seeks my life?"
When the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, they said, "What doeth the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews mean?" They understood that Yahweh's ark was come into the camp.
And they said, "There must be a remnant for Benjamin, that a tribe shall not be blotted out from Israel.
And David said unto Achish, But what have I done? and what thou hast found in thy servant so long as I have been with thee unto this day, that I cannot battle against the enemies of my lord the king?
And he found a fresh jawbone of an ass, and put forth his hand, and took it, and slew with it a thousand men.
So the woman, running quickly, gave her husband saying, I have seen the man that came unto me the other day.
And it came to pass at that time Deborah, a prophetess, the wife of Lappidoth, was judging Israel.
So Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, "May Yahweh call the enemies of David unto account."
and tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the age to come,
And he walked to his father's house at Ophrah, and killed his brethren the sons of Jerubbaal, being seventy persons, on the one stone: but Jotham the youngest son of Jerubbaal was left; for he hid himself.
seeing therefore it must some that remaineth enter therein, and they to whom it was first preached entered not in because of unbelief:
And Saul sent to Isai, voice, saying, Let David stand before me: for he hath found favour in my sight.
And Adoni-zedek said, threescore and ten kings, whose thumb and great toe had been cut off, rose broken food under my table: as I have done, so hath God done unto me in filled. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and he died in there.
But thou hast to-day rejected your God, who himself saves you out of all thy calamities and thy distresses; and thou hast said unto him, 'No! Set a king over us.' Now therefore present yourselves before Yahweh by your tribes, and by thy thousands."
That from year to year the daughters of Israel assemble together, and lament the daughter of Jephte the Galaadite for four days.
because this the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel, after those days, saith Jehovah, giving My statutes into their mind, and upon their heart I will write them, and I will be their for a God, and they shall be Me for a people;
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, On this manner spake David.
And ye have cried out in that day because of the king whom ye have chosen for yourselves, and Jehovah doth not answer thee in that day.'
And the Spirit of Yahweh rushed upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon. He killed thirty men from them, and he took their belongings, and he called festal garments to the ones that explained the riddle. He was wroth, and he went up to his father's house.
Samuel said unto Saul, "Why hast thou disturbed me, to bring me up?" Saul answered, "I am very distressed; for the Philistines fight against me, and God hath departed from me, and answers me no more, by prophets, nor by dreams. Therefore I have called you, that ye may make known unto me what I shall do."
Now Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty man of valour, and he was the son of a harlot; and Gilead, had begotten Jephthah.
But with whom was he grieved forty years, was it not with them that had sinned, whose carcases fell in the wilderness?
There was no loss anything, small or great, sons or daughters, or stuff or anything that they had taken away: David gathered it all hinder part.
Where the forerunner Jesus is entered for us, made a high priest for ever according to the commandment of Melchisedech.
Now there were men lying in wait, abiding with her in the chamber. And she said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. And he brake the withs, a thread of tow is broken when it toucheth the fire. And his strength was not known.
He turned around from him to another over against him, and he spoke to him also and the people answer him as aforetime.
Now therefore Jehovah, the God of Israel, dispossessed the Amorites, from before his people Israel, and should ye possess them?
And she brought it before Saul, and before his servants; and they did eat. And they rose up, and went away that night.
And when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah came into the camp, all Israel shouted with a great shout, so that the earth rang again.
And Gideon son of Joash turneth back from the battle, at the going up of the sun,
Saying: This is the blood of the covenant, which God hath enjoined unto thee.
And Samuel called unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day. And all the people greatly feared Jehovah and Samuel.
When he had finished speaking, he threw the jawbone out of his hand; and the name of that place was called Ramath Lehi.
when the corners of thy sickles, and the hoes, and the forks, and the axes were blunted; and to set the goads.
And David said unto Saul, "Your servant hath been a shepherd of the flock for his father. If the lion or the bear would come and carry off a sheep from the outmost in the coupling,
And there fall of Benjamin eighteen thousand men -- the whole of these men of valour;
And there was sore war against the Philistines all the days of Saul: and when Saul saw any mighty, or any valiant man, he brought him unto him.
And the woman cometh and speaketh unto her husband, saying, `A man of God hath come unto me, and his appearance as the appearance of a messenger of God, very fearful, and I have not whence he asked him , and his name he hath not declared unto me;
And when David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, Blessed be Jehovah, who hath pleaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and hath kept back his servant from evil; But Jehovah hath returned Nabal's evil upon his own head. And David sent and communed with Abigail to take her according to all that his wife.
And Manoah arose, and followed his wife, and came up to the man and said unto him, Art thou the man that talked with this woman? And he said, I am.
For we know that our Lord hath sprung out of Juda, as whither tribe Moses spake nothing as to priests.
Therefore I sent him the more speedily: that seeing him again, ye may rejoice, and I may be without sorrow.
And the Philistines overtook Saul and his sons, and the Philistines killed Jonathan and Abinadab, and Malki-Shua, the sons of Saul.
And they said unto him, We are come down to deliver thee, that we may bind thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Samson said unto them, Swear unto me, that ye shall not fall upon me yourselves.
And the me, came to Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself in the hill of Hachilah, over against the draught?
And the men of Israel have that soul, and the men of Benjamin are afflicted, for they have seen that the evil hath stricken against them --
And may my God supply all thy want, according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
And they answer them, and said, He is. behold, he is before thee; make haste now, for he came to day to the city; for there is a sacrifice of the people to day in the high place;
And we have both straw and provender for our asses, and I have bread and wine also for me, and for thy handmaid, and for the young man with thy servants: there is no lack of nothing.
But take heed to the days after thee had seen the light, when ye passed through a great war of affliction;
and the golden mice, [according to] the sum of the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five lords, both villages of the fortified cities and peasantry; [and they brought them] even unto the great [stone of] Abel. whereon they set down the ark of Jehovah, is unto this day in the field of Joshua the Beth-shemeshite.
saying, This the blood of the covenant which God hath enjoined unto you.
David went up from thence, and lived in the strongholds of En Gedi.
Wherefore didst thou keep silence among the sheep, heard nothing but watchmen piping to the sheepfolds, It is
How much more shall the blood of Christ, who by the Holy Ghost offered himself unto God, unspotted cleanse our conscience from dead works, to serve the living God?
And they rise early in the morning on the morrow, and lo, Dagon is fallen upon the face to the earth, before the ark of Jehovah, and the head of Dagon, and the two palms of its hands are cut off at the threshold, only the fishy part hath been left unto him;
The border of the Amorites, ran from the ascent of Akrabbim from Sela and upward.
As faith Abraham, when he was tempted, offer Isaac, and the one that received the promises was ready to offer his one and only son,
And there was a man of mount Ephraim, whose name was Micah.
And the men of Israel also Judah rise -- -- and shout, and pursue the Philistines until thou enter the valley, and unto the gates of Ekron, and the wounded of the Philistines fall in the way of Shaaraim, even unto Gath, and unto Ekron,
But day and night they were as a hedge about us while we were with them, keeping the sheep.
"Through the window she told thee, out, and cried: Sisera's mother told thee, through the lattice. 'Why is his chariot so long in coming? Why do the wheels of his chariots wait?'
And Saul said unto him, Why hast thou conspired against me with the son of Jesse, giving him victuals and a sword and drawers to inquire of Jehovah for him, and helping him to stand up against me, and to be upon the watch to make a secret up against me as he is doing now?
And the sons of Israel do the evil thing in the sight of Jehovah, and Jehovah giveth them into the hand of Midian seven years,
Now David had said, "Surely in vain have I kept all that this fellow hath in the wilderness, that nothing was missed of all that pertained to him. He hath returned me evil for good.
And the heads of the Philistines are wroth against him, and the heads of the Philistines say unto him, `Send back the man, and he doth purifications accomplished, back unto his place whither thou hast appointed him, and doth not go down with us into battle, and is not unto us for an adversary in battle; and wherewith doth this one reconcile himself unto his lord -- is it not with the heads of them men?'
Make an altar unto Jehovah thy God on the top of the rock, according to the way and take the ox and make a burnt-offering with the wood of the oaks which hath been cut down.
For unto me, to live is Christ; and to die is gain.
In those days was there no king in Israel. And in those days the tribe of the Danites was seeking territory for itself to live in, because until that day it had not been allotted territory among the tribes of Israel.
And he said unto him, Why make ye trial my Lord, wherewith shall I save Israel? behold, my house is poor in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
And ye shall not forget to do good, and to impart; for by such sacrifices God's favour is obtained.
And he said unto him, Fear not: for the hand of Saul my father shall not find thee; and thou shalt be king over Israel, and I shall be next unto thee; and that also Saul my father knoweth.
And it came to pass when he had accomplished offering the gift, he sent away the people that had borne the gift.
and in fashion having been found as a man, he humbled himself, having become obedient unto death -- death even of a cross,
Then the men of the city said unto Joash Make thy son, come out to be put to death, for and brake down the altar of Baal, and cut down the oaks which was by it.
And Saul saith unto the people that with him, `Inspect, I pray thee, and see; that hath gone from us?' and they inspect, and lo, Jonathan and the bearer of his weapons are not.
Now on their way, when David returned after the destruction of the Philistine, the women came forth out of all the cities of Israel, and with harps, and dances, assembly David with tabret and joy and and harp.
behold, I will put a fleece of wool upon the threshing floor; if there be dew upon the fleece only, and it is dry upon all the ground, then shall For I know that thou shalt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast spoken."
The God's do so to David, if when morning cometh there is so much as one male of his people yet alive.
And when he had made an end of offering the holocaust, behold Samuel came; and Saul went forth to meet him, and salute him.
Curse Meroz -- said a messenger of Jehovah, ye its Cursing, curse inhabitants, For they came not to succor of Jehovah, To the help of Jehovah among the mighty!
Shall the men of Keilah deliver me up into his hand? Will Saul fallen, as thy servant hath heard? Jehovah, the God of Israel, I beg thee, tell thy servant." Yahweh said, "He shall come down."
And Saul saw and knew that Jehovah was with David; and Michal Saul's daughter beloved him.
So Jesse made Shammah pass before Samuel, but he said, "Yahweh also hath not chosen this one."
Salute all them leading thee, and all the saints; salute you from doth Italy:
And he said, Peaceably: I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah: sanctify yourselves, and come with me into the sacrifice. And he sanctified Jesse and his sons, and called them unto the sacrifice.
looking stedfastly upon Jesus the leader and completer of faith: that in sight of the joy lying before him, endured cross, having despised shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God.
And they gave We will most them. So they put down with his garment, every man drop into it, the ear-rings he had taken.
Samuel answer Saul and said, "I am the seer. Go up ahead of me to the high place, and ye shall eat with me this day: behold, then I will send thee away in the morning. I will tell thee all that is upon thy mind.
And Samson went and caught three hundred foxes, and took firebrands, and turned tail, to tail, and put a firebrand in the midst between two tails.
The burden of the gold ear-rings which he rose from them was a thousand and seven hundred shekels of gold; besides the moon-ornaments and stones and the purple, garments which were on the kings of Midian, and the made their camels' necks of them.
Thou shalt all things without grumbling and disputing,
Grace be unto thee, and peace, from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ.
And when Jehovah raised them up judges, then Jehovah was with the judge, and saved them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the sentence come forth from it repented Jehovah because of their groanings by them that oppressed them, and trodden them.
Blessed above women is Jael, Wife of Heber, the Kenite, and Above women in the tent she is blessed.
And he said unto him: Behold there is a man of God in this city, a famous man: all that he saith, cometh surely pass. Now therefore let us go thither, perhaps he may tell us of our way, for which we are come.
They slaughtered the bull, and they brought the lad unto Eli.
So David and Abishai she came to the people by night: and, behold, Saul lay and sleep within the trench, and his spear stuck in the ground at his bolster: but Abner and the people lay round about him.
And the decree of the watchers, rushing upon Gibeah and overrunning it, put all the city to the sword without lovingkindness.
David therefore departed from thence, and escaped unto the cave of Adullam. When his brethren, and all his father's house heard it, they went down there unto him.
And Jonathan said, Thou shalt not have such a considered well; for if I saw that my father was stood up against thee, would I not tell thee; it?
He came to the sheep pens beside the way, and a cave was there. And Saul went in unto relieve himself. Now David and his men were sitting in the innermost parts of the cave.
And Zebul the ruler of the city heard the words of Gaal the son of Ebed and his measure, was kindled;
And Micah said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite of Bethlehemjudah, and I go to sojourn where I shall find a place.
So Saul took the kingdom over Israel, and fought against all his enemies round about, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines; and whithersoever he turned himself, he vexed them.
And Jonathan said unto David; Go in peace: and let all stand that we have sworn both of us in the name of Jehovah, voice, saying, The Lord be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever.
And when the men of Israel turned again, the men of Benjamin were amazed: for they perceived that wickedness was upon them.
And the messenger of saith Jehovah unto Manoah, `If thou detain me -- I do not eat of thy bread; and if thou prepare a burnt-offering -- to offer dost thou it;' for Jehovah hath not Manoah known that He a messenger of Jehovah.
Now David was the of his sons. The three eldest followed Saul,
For Jehovah will not forsake his people for his great name's sake: for it hath pleased Jehovah to make thee his people.
And Samuel said unto all the people, Know ye see the man of the Lord's anointed, how there is none like him among all the people? And all the people with shouting, said, Long live the king.
The children of Israel did that which was evil in Yahweh's sight, and served the Baalim.
My heart is toward the governors of Israel, that offered themselves willingly Jehovah! Bless among the people.
They abandoned Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods, of the gods of the peoples that were around them, and bowed themselves down unto them; and they provoked Yahweh to anger.
Therefore, my pleasant beloved brethren, and most desired, my joy and my crown: so stand fast in Jehovah, my pleasant beloved.
And Samuel Jehovah, What meaneth then this bleating of the flocks, which soundeth in mine ears, and the lowing of the herds which I hear?
and they bury him in the border of his inheritance, in Timnath-Heres, in the hill-country of Ephraim, on the north of mount Gaash;
And Midian was stronger than Israel; and because of the Midianites, the children of Israel digged for themselves in the mountains, and furrows in the rocks, and strong places.
And he gave them a thorough beating, and he went down and stayed in the cleft of the rock of Etam.
And Gideon went up the route of them that dwell in tents on the east of Nobah and Jogbehah, and he persecuted the host when it was off its guard.
And it cometh to pass, on the morrow, that Saul putteth the people in three detachments, and they come into the midst of the camp in the morning-watch, and smite Ammon until the fierceness of the day; and it cometh to pass that they left are scattered, and there have not been left of them two together.
but if it bears thorns and thistles, it is rejected and near being cursed, whose end shall be burnt.
And in the former in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, he said, Come let us go unto the Seer, for he that now is called Prophet was in those days given the name of Seer.)
And Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, having three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
And David said unto the Philistine: Thou comest unto me with a sword, and with a spear, and with a shield: but I come unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the camp of Israel, which thou hast defied.
So David rose up early, he and his men, to depart in the morning, to return into the land of the Philistines, and the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
When the Philistines heard the noise of the shouting, they said, "What is the noise of this loud shouting in the camp of the Hebrews?" And they learned that the ark of Yahweh was come into the camp.
Wherefore God hath also was exalted him, and given him a name which is above every name:
O Jehovah, when thou wentest out of Seir, and passedst by the regions of Edom, the earth trembled, and the heavens thrown water.
When ye come into the city ye shall see him from thence; before he goeth up to the high place for the feast: the people shall be for his blessing before beginning the feast, and after that they that were bidden shall eat thereof. So go up now and ye shall see him.
and the peace of God, which shall surpasses every understanding, guard your hearts and thy thoughts by Christ Jesus.
A certain woman cast an upper millstone upon Abimelech's head, And broke his skull.
With such force that the haft went in after the sickle into the boil, and was closed up with the abundance of fat. that he did not draw out the dagger, but left it in his body as he had struck it in. And forthwith by the secret parts of nature the excrements of the belly came out.
concluding that God is able to raise up even from the dead. Figuratively speaking, he also did receive him back from the dead.
And I will go forth, and stand beside my father in the field where thou art: and I will speak of thee to my father, and whatsoever I shall behold, I will tell thee.
And he smote them from Aroer, which is until thou come to Minnith, twenty cities, even unto Abel-Cheramim, with a very great slaughter; and the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
A bronze helmet was upon his head, and he was clothed with shekel body armor; the weight of the body armor was five thousand bronze shekels.
Now the sons of Eli were wicked men. They know Jehovah I didn't
Why abodest thou among the sheepfolds, to hear the bleatings of the sheepfolds, It is For the courses of Reuben there were great searchings of heart.
But the princes of Succoth said, Are the hand of Zebah and Zalmunna even now in thy hand that we are to give bread to thy army?
So Achish straightway gave him Ziklag: and therefore Ziklag, hath been the possession of the kings of Judah unto this day.
Thou shalt not multiply thy words proud let not vain-glory come out of thy mouth; For Jehovah is a God of knowledge, and by him actions are weighed.
To him succeeded Ahialon a Zabulonite: and he judged Israel ten years:
And David said, Jehovah that delivered me out of the paw of the lion and out of the paw of the bear, So he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
So they ran and brought him from thence, and when he took his stand among the people, he was taller than all the people from his shoulders and up.
Among all these soldiers there were seven hundred chosen men that were left-handed. Every one of them could sling a stone at miss. and not a hair
Now when Samuel heard all the words of the people, he repeated them in the ears of Jehovah I
And Midian is humbled before the sons of Israel, and have not added to lift up their head; and the land resteth forty years in the days of Gideon.
Women received by a rising again their dead, and others were tortured, not accepting the redemption, that a better rising again they might receive,
Then the children of Benjamin came out from Gibeah, cut down twenty and two thousand of the Israelites that day.
Now the things we are saying this is the chief point: We have such a high priest, who hath stood at the right hand of God's throne of glory in heaven,
Then Samuel said unto the people, "Come, let us go to Gilgal, and let us renew the kingship there."
And the battle was too sore for Saul, and the archers overtook him; and he was distressed by reason of the archers.
Then Zebah and Zalmunna said, "Rise and fall upon us; for as the man is, so is his strength." Gideon arose, and killed Zebah and Zalmunna, and took the crescents that were on their camels' necks of them.
For if a man at any time rise, and persecute thee, and shall seek thy life, the soul of my lord shall be kept. as in the bundle of the living, with Jehovah thy God: but the souls of thy enemies shall be whirled, as with the violence and sling. of a whirling
I have a maiden daughter, and this man hath a concubine, I will bring them out unto you, and ye shall humble them, and satisfy thy lust: only, I beseech thee, commit not this crime against nature upon the man.
Samuel said unto Saul, "You have done foolishly. Ye have not kept the commandment of Yahweh your God, which he commanded thee; for now Yahweh would have established thy kingdom upon Israel forever.
And he said unto his boy: Go, and fetch me the arrows which I shoot. And when the lad ran, he shot another arrow beyond the up.
Therefore the men of Jabesh said, Unto morrow we shall come forth unto you, and ye shall do with us all that seemeth good unto thee.
And Jerubbaal son of Joash goeth and dwelleth in his own house,
which we have as anchor of the soul, both secure and firm, and entering into that within the veil,
Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the word of God, that things that are seen were not made of things that do appear.
So his mouth and David kept his servants back, and did not let them smite Saul. And Saul arose and went his way.
"But they forgot Yahweh their God; and he sold them into the hand of Sisera, captain of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab; and they fought against them.
Kings came,they fought; Then fought the kings of Canaan; At Taanach and its towns, by the waters of Megiddo; They took no spoil of silver.
Yet I supposed it necessary to send unto you Epaphroditus, my brother, and companion in labour, and fellowsoldier, but thy messenger, and he that ministered unto my wants.
There was no deliverer, because it was far from Sidon and they had no dealings with any else; and it was in the valley that lies by Beth Rehob. They built the city, and lived therein.
And his wife answer him: If Jehovah had minded to kill us, that he would not have received a holocaust and libations at our hands, neither would he have shewed us all these things, nor have told us the things that are to come.
and afterwards have the sons of Judah gone down to battle against the Canaanite, inhabiting the hill-country, and the south, and the low country;
They say unto him, "Look, thou art old and thy sons thou shalt not follow in thy ways. So then appoint a king for us to judge us, as all the nations.
And the house of Joseph sent to seek out Bethel; now the name of the city before was at the first.
And we also shall be as all nations: and our king shall judge us, and go out before us, and battle our battles for us.
and David asketh at Jehovah, saying, `I pursue after this troop -- do I overtake it?' And He saith unto him, `Pursue, for thou dost surely overtake, and dost surely deliver.'
She said, "Surely I will go with thee; yet there shall be no glory for you in the path thou shalt dispossess, for Yahweh shall sell Sisera into the hand of a woman." And Deborah stood up, and went with Barak to Kedesh.
Now when Saul returned from following the Philistines, it was given him that David was in the wilderness of En-gedi.
The children of Benjamin gathered themselves together out of the cities to Gibeah, go forth to battle against the children of Israel.
She sent and called for Barak son of Abinoam from Kedesh Naphtali and said unto him, "Has not Yahweh the God of Israel commanded you? 'Go, march unto mount Tabor, and take ten thousand men from the descendants of Naphtali and Zebulun, twelve cities.
And the men of Ephraim said unto him, Why hast thou served us thus, that thou calledst us not, when thou wentest to battle with the Midianites? And they did chide with him sharply.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Abide thou with me, fear not: for he that seeketh I live, seeketh thy life also, and with me thou shalt be saved.
"Jael shall be blessed above women, the wife of Heber, the Kenite; shall she be blessed above women in the tent.
And there was war again: and David went out the Philistines, and with great destruction among them; and they fled before him.
And David took all of the ram, and the cattle they drove along before that livestock, and they said, "This is David's plunder."
And David dwelt with Achis at Geth, he and his men: every man with his household, and David with his two wives, Achinoam the Jezrahelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
(Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, detained before Jehovah; and his name was Doeg, the Edomite; prince of the shepherds that to Saul.)
he humbled himself by and served obedient unto the tip of death, that is, death on a cross.
but when Saul saw that he was very successful, he was severely threatened by him.
And when Saul sent messengers to take David, she said, He is sick.
But encourage yourselves each day, as long as it is called To-day, that none of you be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin.
And David saved neither man nor woman, neither brought he any of them unto Geth, voice, saying, Lest they should speak against us. So did David, and such was his proceeding all the days that he dwelt in the country of the Philistines.
Behold, thou hast seen this day how that Jehovah gave you up into my hands even now into the palm of the rocks: and some would have had me slay thee; but I had compassion on thee: for I said, Far be it from us my hand be exalted against my lord, that hath anointed with oil.
for [it is] evident that out of Judah hath arisen our Lord, in regard whither tribe Moses spake concerning nothing priesthood.
And depart not hence, till I return unto thee, and bring a sacrifice, and offer it unto thee. And he answered: I will wait thy coming.
And Samson said, With the jawbone of an ass, heaps upon heaps, with the jaw of an ass have I slain a thousand men.
Behold; if it went up by the way of its own border unto Beth Shemesh, then he hath done us this great evil; but if not, then shall we know that it is not his hand that struck us. It was opportunity that happened unto us."
And one of the inhabitants of that place answered, And who is their father? So it became a common saying, Is even Saul among the prophets?
and I ask thee, also genuine yoke-fellow, be assisting those women that in the gospel did strive along with me, with Clement also, and the others, my fellow-workers, whose names in the book of life.
there salute you all the saints, and specially they of Caesar's house;
Whence neither the first was inaugurated without blood.
As faith Enoch was received up, that he did not see death, he was seen any more; for God brought him off; for before he was taken, witness had been given that he was well-pleasing unto God:
And the rulers of the Philistines came up unto her, and said, "Entice him, and find out what maketh his might, so great, and how can we overpower him, that we may bind him up in order to subdue him; each of us shall give thee eleven hundred pieces of silver.
as to the rest, expecting until He may place his enemies his footstool,
And she said, The glory is departed from Israel; for the ark of God is taken.
Men lying privately in wait with her, and in the chamber expecting the event of the thing, and she cried out unto him: The Philistines are upon thee, Samson. And he broke the bands, according to a man would break a thread of tow twined with spittle, when it smelleth the fire: so it was not known wherein his strength Jay.
But he slew of the men of Bethsames, because they had seen the ark of Jehovah: and he slew of the people seventy men, and fifty thousand of the common people. And the people lamented, because Jehovah had smitten the people with a great slaughter.
Gideon the son of Joash died in a good old age, and was buried in the tomb of Joash his father, in Ophrah, of the Abiezrites.
Now a little while, and after, at the time of the harvest, Samson, taking with him a young goat, went to see his wife; and he said, I will go in unto my wife into the bride's chamber. But her father would not let him go in.
And Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning. And it was told Samuel, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and behold, he set him up a monument, and hath turned about, and passed over, and gone down to Gilgal.
And Samuel said unto the people, "Do not fear! Thou hast done all this evil; only thou shalt not turning aside from following Jehovah I But ye must serve Yahweh with all thy heart.
When they were by the house of Micah, they knew the voice of the young man the Levite; so they turned aside there, and said unto him, "Who brought thou here? What do ye in this place? What seest thou hast here?"
And I took her, and cut her in pieces, and sent the, parts into all the borders of thy possession: because there never was so heinous a iniquity, and so great an abomination committed in Israel.
A minister of the holies, and of the true tabernacle, which Jehovah hath pitched, and not man.
And he said unto him, We are passing from Bethlehemjudah toward the side of mount Ephraim: from thence am I; and I went to Bethlehemjudah, but I am now going to the house of Jehovah; and there is no man that receiveth me to house.
that ye be not slothful, but followers of them, that through faith and shall inherit the patience promises.
For whom Jehovah loveth he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth.
Brethren, *I* do not count to have gathered possession myself, but one thingforgetting the things behind, and reacheth unto the things before,
behold, I put a fleece of wool upon the threshing-floor; if dew shall be upon the fleece only, and it be dry upon all the ground, then shall For I know that thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said.
But of which of the angels hath he said all the Sit thou on my right hand until I make thine enemies the footstool of thy feet?
Now, behold, For I know that ye shall surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thy hand.
And she used to sit under the palm tree of Deborah between Ramah, and Bethel in the hill country of Ephraim: and the Israelites went up to her for judgment.
Now Zebul, the governor of the city, heard the words that Gaal, the son of Ebed had said, was moved to anger.
And Israel set liers in wait round about Gibeah.
And the two made a covenant before Jehovah: and David abode in the wood: but Jonathan returned to his house.
And to the sound of a trumpet, and the voice of words, the hearers of which besought him that not a word more might be said unto them:
And Saul, signifying his spear at him, assayed to give him a wound: from whence he knew Jonathan that his father's would have put David to death.
And Jephthah judged Israel, six years. Then died Jephthah the Gileadite, and was called after was buried in one of the cities of Gilead.
Now David and his men went up and raided the Geshurites and the Girzites and the Amalekites, and David for they had been in the land for a long time in the hand of Shur and even unto the land of Egypt.
And David said in his heart, I shall now perish one day by the hand of Saul: there is nothing better for me to die than that I should speedily escape into the land of the Philistines; and Saul shall despair of me, to seek me any more in any coast of Israel: so shall I escape out of his hand.
And the princes of the people, out of all the tribes of Israel, stood in the assembly of the inhabitants of God, four hundred thousand footmen armed with the sword.
And Saul said, Hear now, O son of Ahitub. And he said, Behold, I am here, my lord.
And the measure, of Jehovah was hot against Israel: and he said, Because that this people hath transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and have not hearkened unto my voice;
by faith he did sojourn in the land of the promise as foreigners in tabernacles having dwelt with Isaac, and Jacob, fellow-heirs of the same promise,
And he saith unto him, `Lo, I pray thee, a man of God in this city, and the man is honoured; all that he speaketh doth surely come; now, we go also, it may be he doth declare unto us our way upon which we have gone.'
And they say, `If ye are sending away the ark of the God of Israel, ye do not send it away empty; for ye do surely bring back to He a guilt-offering; then ye are healed, and it hath been known unto you why His hand doth not turning aside from you.'
Be strong, and behave like men, O ye Philistines, that thou not serve the Hebrews, as they have been unto you. Strengthen yourselves like men, and fight!"
Yahweh forbid that I should plain out my hand against Yahweh's anointed; but now please take the spear that is at his head, and the jar of water, and let us go."
And the people the chief men of Gilead, said one to another, Who is the man that shall begin to battle against the children of Ammon? he shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
Samuel said unto the people, "Don't be afraid. Thou hast indeed done all this evil; yet don't turning aside from following Jehovah, but serve Yahweh with all thy heart.
So Samuel called to Yahweh; and Yahweh sent thunder and rain that day. And all the people greatly feared Yahweh and Samuel.
And the children of Israel remembered not Jehovah their God, who had delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies round about.
called by God a high priest after the order of Melchizedek.
He broke down the tower of Penuel, and he killed the men of the city.
And when he came, behold, Eli was sitting upon the throne by the way-side watching; for his heart trembled for the ark of God. And the man came to tell it in the city, and all the city cried out.
And the elders of Gilead say unto Jephthah, `Jehovah is hearkening between us -- if according to thy word we do not so.'
and the border of the Amorite, from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock and upward.
for we are the circumcision, that by the Spirit are serving God, and glory in Christ Jesus, and in flesh having no trust,
And unto Jesus the mediator of the new covenant, and to the sprinkling of blood that speaketh better than of Abel.
But if I say unto the young man, thus Behold, the arrows are beyond thee; go thy way: for Jehovah hath sent thee away.
And it happened, as soon as Gideon died, the Israelites returned and prostituted themselves after the Baalim, and they made them Baal-Berith as god.
and they turning aside there go in to lodge in Gibeah, and he goeth in and sitteth in the broad place of the city, and there is no man gathering them into the house to lodge.
and the Philistines called unto the priests and to them that practiced divination, saying, "What should we do with the ark of Yahweh? Inform us how we should bring it to the place."
And a certain woman cast a piece of a millstone upon Abimelech's head, and all to brake his skull.
This day doth Jehovah shut thee up into my hand -- and I have smitten thee, and turned aside thy head from off thee, and given the carcase of the camp of the Philistines this day unto the fowl of the heavens, and to the beast of the earth, and all the earth do know that God is for Israel.
Therefore Christ suffered without the walls, that he might make the people holy by his blood.
And the olive said unto them, Should I leave my fatness, wherewith by me they honor God and man, and go to wave over the trees?
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and slew thirty men of them, and dwelt in their garments of spoil, and gave unto them that expounded the riddle. And his measure, was kindled, and he went up to his father's house.
So all the elders of Israel gathered together, and came to Samuel at Ramah.
As faith Enoch was translated that he should not see death, and was not found, because God had translated him: for before his translation he had this testimony, that he pleased God.
And the king saith, `Ask thou whose son this -- the young man.'
The angel of God said unto him, "Take the food and the unleavened cakes, and lay them upon this flint, and pour out the broth." And he did so.
In that day will I raise up against Heli all things I have spoken concerning his house: I will begin, and I will make an end.
And hath Sisera fled upon his feet unto the tent of Jael wife of Heber, the Kenite, and for peace between Jabin king of Hazor, and the house of Heber, the Kenite;
and it hath come to pass, she is riding upon the ass, and cometh down in the hidden part of the hill-country, and lo, David and his men are coming down to meet her, and she meeteth them.
And Jehovah raised up judges, and they saved them out of the hand of them that spoiled them.
Make prayers for us; for we know that our heart is free from the interpretation of sin, desiring the right way of life in all things.
And what shall I speak? for the time shall yet fail me also, and Gideon, about recounting Barak Samson, and Jephthah, David also, and Samuel, and the prophets,
and these ten cheese of the cuttings thou dost take in unto the head of the thousand, and thy brethren inspect for thou dost welfare, and their pledge dost receive.'
Now the sons of Eli were worthless scoundrels; they did not know Jehovah I
And the woman came unto Saul, and saw that he was sore troubled, and said unto him, Behold, thy bondmaid hath hearkened unto thy voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have hearkened unto thy words which thou spokest unto me.
And the children of the Kenite, and Moses' father-in-law, was gone up out of the city of palm-trees with the children of Judah into the wilderness of Judah, which is in the south of Arad; and they went and dwelt with the people.
And the sound of a trumpet, and the voice of words; which voice they that heard intreated that the word should not be spoken to them any more:
and Abdon, the son of Hillel, the Pirathonite, died, and was buried in Pirathon in the land of Ephraim, in the hill-country of the Amalekites.
And Gideon said unto God, If thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said,
And Gideon the son of Joash returned from the battle, from the ascent of Heres.
Now when Saul's old friends saw him in the assembly of prophets, the people said one to another, What is come to Saul the son of Kish? Is even Saul among the prophets?
save the high priest enters into the second tent once a year, not without blood, which he offers on behalf of himself and the wickedness of them that committed in ignorance.
And David fled from Naioth in Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan What have I done? mine iniquity? and what is my sin before thy father, that he seeketh my life?
Then the Israelites cried out unto Jehovah, saying, "We have sinned against thee; we have abandoned our God and served the Baals."
Gideon said unto them, "I shall not rule over thee, neither shall my son rule over thee. Yahweh shall rule over you."
And inquired of him concerning their state. At that time the ark of the covenant of Jehovah was there,
being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
And he judgeth Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
The me, came to Saul at Gibeah, saying, "Is not David hiding in the mount of Hakilah over against Jeshimon?"
And the children of Dan said unto him, Say no more, nor men of bitter spirit may lay siege against thee, and he loss of thy life and the lives of thy people.
And it was told Sisara, that Barac the son of Ablinoem was gone up unto mount Thabor:
But the woman, at the And rose of the day, came unto the door of the house where her lord lodged, and there fell down.
But thou didst well to have care for me in my need.
And Saul said, Bring hither a burnt oblation unto me, and peace sacrifices. And he offer the burnt thereof.
David and his men went up and raided the Geshurites, the Girzites, and the Amalekites; for they were the inhabitants of the land, that were of old, in the way to Shur; and he sojourned even unto the land of Egypt.
So Jonathan made a covenant with David's house, saying, "Yahweh will require it at the hand of David's enemies."
`The trees have diligently gone to anoint over them a king, and they say to the olive, Reign thou over us.
The adversaries of Jehovah shall be broken to pieces; out of heaven shall he thunder upon them: Jehovah shall judge the ends of the earth; and he shall give strength unto his king, and exalt the horn of his anointed.
He said, "This shall be the custom of the king who shall reign over thee; he will bring thy sons and appoint them to his chariots and his horsemen, and they shall run before his chariots.
But if ye shall yet do wickedly: both thou, and thy king shall perish together.
And he walked also into Gaza, and found a woman a harlot, and went in unto her.
And after him Ibzan of Bethlehem judged Israel.
And Saul and his men went to seek him, and they told David, so he went down to the rock and stayed in the wilderness of Maon. When Saul heard this, he pursued David into the wilderness of Maon.
Now these things having been thus prepared, the priests enter in continually into the first services, accomplishing the tabernacle,
Wherefore, as the Holy Ghost saith: To day if ye shall hear his voice,
Is it not wheat-harvest to-day? I will call unto Jehovah, and he will send thunder and rain; and ye shall perceive and know that thy wickedness is great which ye have done in the sight of Jehovah in asking for yourselves a king.
And hath sent messengers Gideon into all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, `Come down to meet Midian, and unto the waters before them capture Beth-Barah, and the Jordan;' and every man of Ephraim is called, and they unto the waters capture Beth-Barah, and the Jordan,
But exhort one another daily, while it is called To day; lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin.
The king said unto her, "Don't be afraid! What seest thou see?" The woman saith unto Saul, "I see a god coming up out of the earth."
And it came to pass as she continued praying before Jehovah, that Eli which her mouth.
And Saul said unto Samuel, I have indeed hearkened to the voice of Jehovah, and are gone the way which Jehovah sent me, and have brought Agag the king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed the Amalekites.
And Yahweh said unto the Israelites, "Did I not deliver thee from the Egyptians, the Amorites, from the Ammonites, and from the Philistines?
But when morning was come, the Levite prepared to go on his way. And his father in law said unto him again: I beseech thee to take a portion of flesh, and a little strengthening thyself, until the day be further advanced, afterwards thou mayest depart. And they ate together.
And Saul goeth up from after the Philistines, and the Philistines have been long place;
Then all the ancients of Israel being assembled, came to Samuel to Ramatha.
And they forsook Jehovah, and served Baal, and Ashtaroth.
until midnight, and lay Samson arose at midnight, and laid hold of the gates of the gate of the city, and the two posts, and plucked them up, bar and all, and put them upon his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of the mountain that is before Hebron.
I will shoot three arrows to the side as though I were shooting at a target.
And the man said unto Eli, I am he that came out of the host, and I fled to day out of the host. And he said, What is there done, my son?
So then take thy stand again and see this great thing that Yahweh goeth to do in the midst of thee.
So David took the and the cup of water which was at Saul's head, and they went away; and no man saw it, or knew it, or awaked, but they were all asleep, for a deep sleep from Jehovah was fallen upon them.
Shall the citizens of Keilah deliver me up into his hand? shall Saul fallen, as heard? hath thy servant Jehovah, God of Israel, I beseech thee, tell thy servant. And Jehovah said, He shall fall.
And when the time was that Elkanah offered, he gave unto Peninnah his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters, portions:
And the priest said unto them, "Go in peace. Yahweh is before thee on the journey thou want to go on."
If ye then have dealt in truth, sincerely with Jerubbaal and with his house this day, then rejoice ye in Abimelech and let him also rejoice in you:
So David prevailed over the Philistine with a sling and with a stone, and struck the Philistine, and killed him; but there was no sword in the hand of David.
Now Heber, the Kenite, and and consecrate himself from the rest of the Kenites that from the children of Hobab, the husband's brother of Moses had pitched his tent as far as the oak in Zaanannim, by Kedesh.
It was so from that day forward, that he made it a statute and an ordinance for Israel unto this day.
And the five men that went out to spy out the land (that is, Laish) responded and said unto their relatives, "Do ye know that there are in these houses an ephod teraphim, and an idol of cast metal? So then consider what thou must do."
And Elkanah her husband, and all his house, went up to sacrifice unto Jehovah the yearly sacrifice and his vow.
And he waited seven days, according to the set time that Samuel [had appointed]; but Samuel came not to Gilgal; and the people were scattered from him.
Then said Saul unto Yahweh the God of Israel, "Render choose the perfectly." Jonathan and Saul were chosen by lot and the people went out.
Yahweh forbid me from stretched out my hand against Yahweh's anointed one; So then please take the spear that is near his head, and the jar of water, and let us go."
But the fig-tree said unto them, Shall I lay down my sweet taste and my good fruit and go and wave over the trees?
Then Saul drew near to Samuel in the gate, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, where the seer's house is.
And Judah captureth Gaza, and its border, and Askelon and its border, and Ekron, and its border;
And the Philistines fought against Israel, and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gelboe.
Thou, Jehovah, at the first did put the foundations of the earth, and the heavens are the works of thy hand:
Wherefore also God was exalted him, and granted him a name, that which is above every name,
Give hearken, O kings; inclined their ear, O elders; I, even I, will sing unto Jehovah; I will sing praises unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
Wherefore now rise up early in the morning, with thy master's servants that are come with thee: and as soon as ye be up early in the morning, and have light, depart.
And he brought him into his house, and gave the asses provender; and they washed their feet, and ate and drank.
And Saul sent messengers to take David; and when they saw the band of prophets at work, with Samuel standing in the forefront of the Spirit of God came upon Saul's men, and they became as prophets.
But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels for the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor: that he by the grace of God should taste death for every man.
And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and that thou didst not come within the days appointed, and that the Philistines were assembled at Michmash,
Thus God rendered the wickedness of Abimelech which he did unto his father, in slaying his seventy brethren:
And Judah saith to Simeon his brother, `Go up with me into my lot, and we battle against the Canaanite, -- and I have gone, even I, with thee into thy lot;' and Simeon, goeth with him.
And it came to pass the next day after the new moon, the second [day of the month], as David's place was empty, that Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Wherefore hath not the son of Jesse come to table, neither yesterday nor to-day?
David sent forth spies, and learned that Saul was surely come.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the demon from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house: and David played with his hand, as at the other seasons: and there was a javelin in Saul's hand.
`And, now, lo, I have known that thou dost surely reign, and the kingdom of Israel hath stood in thy hand;
For verily he took not upon him the nature of angels; but he took upon him the seed of Abraham.
Wherefore receive this blessing which thy handmaid hath brought unto thee, my lord: and give it unto the young men that follow thee, my lord.
So Samuel made all the tribes of Israel to draw near, and the tribe of Benjamin, was taken.
for unto me to live Christ, and to die gain.
And afterward the children of Judah went down to battle against the Canaanites, that dwelt in the mountain, and in the south, and in the valley.
And the people said unto Saul, Shall Jonathan die, who hath wrought this great salvation in Israel? God forbid: as Jehovah liveth, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground; for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people rescued Jonathan that he died not.
And I rejoiced in Jehovah greatly, that now at length ye flourished again in had respect unto me, for which also ye were caring, and lacked opportunity;
Then David strapped upon his sword over his mighty attire, but he walked tried in vain to around, for he was not skilful to use them. So David said unto Saul, "I cannot walked with these, because I am not skilful to use them." So David removed them.
There was a man of Ramathaimsophim, of mount Ephraim, and his name was Elcana, the son of Jeroham, the son of Eliu, the son of Thohu, the son of Suph, an Ephraimite:
Now the children of Israel were among the Canaanites, the Hittites, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite;
They were near Jebus, and the day was far spent, and the servant said unto his master, "Please, come, let us turning aside unto this city of the Jebusites, and let us spend the night in it."
and the lamp of God had not yet gone out, Samuel was lying in the temple of Yahweh where the ark of God was.
And he said unto her, Give me now a little water, for I have need of a drink. And opened a skin of milk, she gave him drink, and put the mercy-seat above upon him again.
And David's men say unto him, `Lo, we here in Judah are afraid; and how much more when we go to Keilah, unto the ranks of the Philistines?'
He struck of the men of Beth Shemesh, because they had told thee, Yahweh's ark, he struck fifty thousand seventy men of the men. And the people mourned, because Yahweh had struck the people with a great slaughter.
Not that I speak as regards privation, for as unto me *I* have learnt in those circumstances wherein I am, to be satisfied in myself.
the Holy Spirit shewing this, that the way of the [holy of] holies hath not yet been made manifest while as yet the first tabernacle hath standing;
Then said Saul to his armour-bearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me through with it; lest these uncircumcised come and thrust me up, and abuse me. But his armour-bearer would not; for he was much afraid. Therefore Saul took the sword and fell upon it.
And Saul and his men went to seek . And they told David; and he came down from the rock, and abode in the wilderness of Maon. And Saul heard , and he pursued after David in the wilderness of Maon.
And all the Israelites that had hid themselves in mount Ephraim, heard that the Philistines fled, joined themselves with their brethren in battle. And there were with Saul about ten thousand men.
And Zalmunna Zebah and fled, and he pursued after them, and he took the two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna, and discomfited all the camp.
On the next day, the people went out into the field; and they told Abimelech.
Then the priest's heart was glad, and he took the ephod and the teraphim, and the graven image, and walked in the midst of the people.
The children of Israel did that which was evil in Yahweh's sight, and forgot Yahweh their God, and served the Baalim and the Asheroth.
And Manoah said unto the angel of Jehovah, "What is thy name that, when thy words be fulfilled we may honor you?"
and I say, Now do the Philistines come down unto me to Gilgal, and the face of Jehovah I have not appeased; and I force myself, and saith the burnt-offering unto ascend.'
the king of the children of Ammon, yet hearkened not unto the words that Jephthah sent unto him.
And his father and his mother have not known that from Jehovah it , that a assembly he is seeking of the Philistines; and at that time the Philistines are rule over Israel.
And David's men said unto him, "Look, to-day is the day which Yahweh said unto thee, 'See, I give thy enemy into thy hand, and ye can do to him that which is good in you.'" So David arose, and secretly cut the hem of Saul's robe.
And Gedeon the son of Joas died in a good old age, and was buried in the sepulchre of his father in Ephra of the house of Ezri.
Saul's servants spoke them words in the ears of David. David said, "Does it seem to thee a light thing to be the king's son-in-law, since I am a poor man, and lightly esteemed?"
And Saul, Jonathan said, He asked to me that he might go to Beth-lehem,
And they called the name of the city Dan, after the name of Dan their father, who was born unto Israel: howbeit the name of the city was Laish at the first.
And as Samuel saw Saul, Jehovah answer him, Behold the man of whom I spoke unto thee! this man shall rule over my people.
And a spirit of Jehovah is sadness unto Saul, and he is sitting in his house, and his javelin in his hand, and David is sporting with the hand,
For on the one hand a preceding commandment is set aside because of the weakness and uselessness
For he will not indeed take hold of angels [by the hand], but he taketh hold of the seed of Abraham.
for I have none like-minded, that sincerely for the things concerning thou shalt charge,
And this man went up out of his city upon the appointed days, to adore and to offer sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Silo. and the two sons of Heli, Ophni, and Phinees, were there priests of Jehovah.
and that were in Hebron, and to the rest that were in those places, in that David had abode with his men.
Let us go in singleness of heart, in certain faith, having our heart loosed from the interpretation of sin and our bodies, washed with clean water:
And his concubine, that he had in Sichem, bore him a son, whose name was Abimelech.
And the children of Israel removed the Baalim and the Ashtaroth, and served Yahweh only.
And Saul said unto them, "May thou be blessed by Jehovah, for thou hast shown me compassion!
And Samuel took a young lamb, offering all of it for a burnt-offering unto Jehovah: and Samuel wished unto Jehovah for Israel and Jehovah gave him speedily.
Then Samuel took the vial of oil, and thou shalt anoint him there among his brethren; and from that day the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David with power. So Samuel returned to Ramah.
For in one place he hath spoken of the seventh day, And God had rest from all his works on the seventh day:
Pray for us, for we trust that we have a good conscience, in all things willing to behave well,
how shall we escape if we neglect so great a salvation which was the beginning when it was spoken through the Lord and was confirmed unto us, who heard,
And Samson turneth aside the two midst pillars, whereon the house is established, and whereon it is supported, the one with his right hand, and one with his left;
Wherefore, coming into the world, he saith, `Sacrifice and offering Thou didst not will, and a body Thou didst prepare for me,
The things that came to you by instruction, and preaching and which hath been showed thee in me, these things do, and the God of peace shall be with you.
His legs were covered with flakes of brass and hanged on his shoulder was a javelin of brass.
And again, "I shall trust in him." And again, "Behold, I and the children God hath given me."
And when the people were come into the camp, the elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath Jehovah smitten us to day before the Philistines? Let us fetch the ark of the covenant of Jehovah out of Shiloh, unto us, that, when it cometh among us, it may save us out of the hand of our enemies.
Then the king said, "You inquire whose son this young man is."
Nephtali also destroyed not the inhabitants of Bethsames, and of Bethanath: and he dwelt in the midst of the Chanaanites the inhabitants of the land, and the Bethsamites and Bethanites were tributaries unto him.
Samuel said, "Why then do ye ask me, since Yahweh hath departed from thee, and is become thy adversary?
And she shall eat nothing that cometh of the vine, neither let her drink wine nor strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing; and whatsoever I have commanded her, let her fulfill and observe.
Then Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and sought David and his men in pieces of the mountain goats.
and ye have ye known, even Philippians, that in the beginning of the gospel when I went forth from Macedonia, no assembly did communicate with me in regard to give and receiving except ye alone;
And he took a yoke of oxen, and hewed them in pieces, and sent them throughout all the coasts of Israel by the hand of messengers, saying, Whosoever cometh not forth after Saul and after Samuel, so shall it be done unto his oxen. And the fear of Jehovah fell upon the people, and they came out with one consent.
On the next day, an evil spirit from God came mightily upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house. David played with his hand, as he did day by day. Saul had his spear in his hand;
And Hannah prayed, and said, My heart exulteth in Jehovah, my horn hast thou exalted in Jehovah; my mouth is opened wide over mine enemies; for I rejoice in thy salvation.
And they say, `What the guilt-offering which we send back to Him?' and they say, `The number of the princes of the Philistines -- five golden emerods, and five golden mice -- for one plague unto you all, and to thy princes,
And they said unto Jephthah, Come ye, and be our captain, that we may battle with the children of Ammon.
For I have no man of like mind that shall surely have care for thee.
And when he arrived he blown the trumpet in the hill country of Ephraim, and the Israelites went down from the hill country with him leading them.
Let our lord now command thy servants that are before thee to seek out a man that is a skillful play well upon the harp. And when the demon from God is upon thee, he shall play with his hand, and thou shalt be well."
And she said, I will surely go with thee: though I will not be honor in thy promise are for Jehovah will give Sisera into the hand of a woman. And Deborah arose, and went with Barak to Kedesh.
And the youth Samuel is serving Jehovah before Eli, and the word of Jehovah hath been precious in those days -- there is no vision broken forth.
Be obedient to them leading thee, and be subject, for these do watch for your souls go, as about to give separation, that with joy they may do this, and not sighing, for this unprofitable unto you.
But unto the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: a sceptre of righteousness is the sceptre of thy kingdom.
Then the princes of the Philistines went forth to war; and when they went out, David did more soberly above all the servants of Saul, that his name was greatly honored.
and Ehud, came unto him as he was sitting cool alone in his upper chamber. And Ehud, said, "I have a message from God for you." So he rose up from his place.
And there went out of the camp of the Philistines three plunder. One companies to company went towards the way of Ephra unto the land of Sual;
Nobody taketh this honor upon him, but he is called by God, just as Aaron was.
Then the remnant went down to the nobles; the inhabitants of Yahweh went down for him against the mighty.
So her husband Elkanah said unto her, "Do that which is good in thee; until thou stay wean him. Only may Yahweh fulfill his word." So the woman remained and nursed her son until she weaned him.
Pursue peace with all, and holiness, without which none shall see the Lord:
And they said one to another, "Who hath done this thing?" When they inquired and asked, they said, "Gideon the son of Joash hath done this thing."
And he said unto him, Behold now, there is in this city a man of God, and he is an honourable man; all that he saith cometh surely to pass: now let us go thither; peradventure he can shew us our way that we should go.
And the woman saw that it was Saul, and she cried out, and said unto Saul, Why hast thou practised deceit? for thou art Saul.
And a demon, from Jehovah came upon Saul, as he sat in his house with his spear in his hand; and David piped unto him.
We will take ten men of a hundred out of all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred out of a thousand and a thousand out of ten thousand and to bring victuals for the host, that we might battle against Gabaa of Benjamin, and render unto it for its wickedness, what it deserveth.
and Benjamin cometh forth to meet them from Gibeah on the second day, and destroy among the sons of Israel again eighteen thousand men -- to the ground; all these are drawing sword.
and thou hast built an altar unto Jehovah thy God on the top of this stronghold, by the arrangement, and hast taken the second bullock, and cause him to ascend a burnt-offering with the wood of the shrine which thou cuttest down.'
and thou hast heard what they speak, and afterwards are thy hands strengthened, and thou hast gone down against the camp.' And he goeth down, he and Phurah his young man, unto the extremity of the fifties, that in the camp;
And [they of] Beth-shemesh were reaping the wheat-harvest in the valley; and they lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.
And the Philistines say, `Who hath done this?' And they say, `Samson, son-in-law of the Timnite, because he hath taken away his wife, and giveth her unto his companion;' and the Philistines go up, and burning by her and her father with fire.
What more shall I say? For the time would fail me if I told of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, David, Samuel, and the prophets;
But shall not he that burneth the Son of God hath been trodden under foot, and the blood of the covenant with which he was washed clean hath been accepted for the unholy thing, and who hath profaned the Spirit of grace, be judged unto a very much worse punishment?
Thou hast beloved righteousness and detestable lawlessness; because of this God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the olive oil of joy more than thy companions.
And the Spirit of Jehovah was in him, and he judged Israel. And he went out to battle, and Jehovah delivered into his hands Chusan Rasathaim king of Syria, and he overthrew him.
They have come in unto the land of Zuph, and Saul hath said unto his young man that with him, `Come, and we purifications accomplished, back, lest my father leave off from the asses, and hath been sorrowful for us.'
Saul said, "Cast lots between me and Jonathan my son." Jonathan was selected.
Then all the wicked men and base fellows, of them that went with David, answer and said, "Because they didn't with us, we will not give them anything of the plunder that we have recovered, except to every man his wife, and his children, that he may lead them away, and depart."
For the man that cometh into his rest hath had rest from his works, as God did from his.
Now there was a man of Benjamin, whose name was Kish the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Bechorath, the son of Aphiah, a Benjamite, a mighty man of power.
After that the children of Judah went down to make war with the Canaanites that dwell in the hill-country, and in the south and in the lowlands.
And another went by the way of Beth-horon, and the third toward the way of the border, above the valley of Seboim towards the desert.
Now no skilled craftsman could be found in all the land of Israel, for the Philistines had said, "So that the Hebrews cannot make swords or spears for themselves."
They that were full have hired themselves out for bread. They that were hungry are satisfied. Yea, the barren hath borne seven. She that hath the countries, and children languishes.
I therefore have not sinned against thee, and thou wilt me wrong to battle against me: may Yahweh the Judge judge to-day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon."
And David is in all his ways, and deal wisely, and Jehovah with him,
In that he saith, "A new covenant", he hath made the first old. But that which is become old and grows aged is near to vanishing away.
It is a fearful thing to fall into the hand of the living God.
And Samson calleth unto Jehovah, and saith, `Lord Jehovah, remember me, I pray Thee, and strengthen me, I pray Thee, only this time, O God; and I am avenged -- vengeance at once -- for my two eyes on the Philistines.'
And Saul armed David with his armour, and he set a helmet of brass upon his head; also he armed him with a coat of mail.
And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold now, an evil spirit from God provoketh thee.
There is none as holy as Jehovah, For there is none besides thee, nor is there any rock as our God.
And the princes in Issachar were with Deborah; and Issachar likewise was with Barak; into the valley that he might bring him from behind. Among the clans of Reuben were great words of the heart.
who subsisting in the likeness of God, did not esteem it an object of rapine to be upon an equality with God;
And the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel went up to Mizpah. And the children of Israel said, Tell , how was this wickedness?
And the man riseth to go, and his father-in-law presseth upon him, and he turneth back, and lodgeth there.
then it shall not be an obstacle for thou or a block of stumbling conscience for my lord either by the shedding of blood without cause nor by my lord taking matters into his own hands. And when Yahweh doeth good unto my lord, then remember thy female servant."
And now, let, I pray thee, my lord the king hear the words of his servant: if Jehovah hath moved thee against me, let He accept a presence; and if the sons of men -- devoted they before Jehovah, for they have cast me out to-day from being admitted into the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
As faith Noah, having been warned concerning things not yet seen, out of reverence constructed an ark for the deliverance of his house, whereby he pronounced sentence upon the world and became an heir of the righteousness that cometh by faith.
And David saith unto Abner `Art not thou a man? and that like thee in Israel? but why hast thou not watched over thy lord the king? for one of the people were come in to destroy the king, thy lord.
When his servants told David these words, it pleased David well to be the king's son-in-law. Before the deadline,
and David saith, dead, and Nabal that heareth `Blessed Jehovah that hath pleaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and His servant hath kept back from evil, and the wickedness of Nabal hath Jehovah turned back upon his own head;' and David sendeth and speaketh with Abigail to take her to him for a wife.
Be Jehovah judge, and judge between me and thee, and see, and judge my cause, and deliver me out of thy hand.
And the inhabitants of Shechem hid a watchmen upon the tops of the mountains, and they smote them in all that passed by on the way and dwelt in their hath; And it came unto Abimelech.
Let not my lord, I pray thee, regard this man of Belial, Nabal; for as his name is, so is he: Nabal is his name, and folly is with him; and I thy handmaid did not see the young men of my lord, whom thou didst send.
Only let thy law do the gospel of Christ, that if I come and see you or if I am away from you, I may have tidings of you that ye are strong in one spirit, working together with one soul for the faith of the good tidings:
This thing is not good, that thou hast done: as Jehovah liveth, thou art the sons of death, that have not kept thy master the Lord's anointed. And now where is the king's spear, and the cup of water, which was at his head?
Not that I have already received this, or have already been made perfect, but I press upon if indeed I may lay hold of that for which also I was laid hold of by Christ.
that ye may approve the better things, that ye may be sincere and without offence unto the day of Christ,
Wherein God, willing to shew more abundantly unto the heirs of the promise the unchangeableness of his will, intervened by an oath,
And when David's servants came, they spoke to Nabal all these words in David's name: and then held their peace.
And his sons henceforth bereave not in his ways, but turned aside after lucre, and took bribes, and perverted justice.
And the chief men of Succoth said, Are the hand of Zebah and Zalmunna already in thy hand, that we should give bread to thine army?
But afterwards they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and have served Astaroth: but now Baalim and deliver us from the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.
And her husband rose up and followed her, to speak it was so, unto her, to bring her again; and his servant was with him, and a couple of asses. And she brought him into her father's house; and when the father of the damsel saw him he rejoiced to meet him.
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, this day, and forever.
And the king saith unto Doeg, `Turn round thou, and come against the priests;' and mischief, O The lovingkindness turneth about, and cometh himself against the priests, and putteth to death in that day fourscore and five men bearing a linen ephod.
They occupied all the territory of the Amorites, from the Arnon up to the Jabbok, and from the wilderness up to the the Jordan.
Are they not all helping spirits, that are sent forth as servants to them that inheritance shall be saved?
And David receiveth from her hand that which she hath brought unto him, and to her he hath said, `Go up in peace to thy house; behold, I have hearkened unto thy voice, and accept thy face.'
and they one by one, and toward the wilderness, flee unto the rock of Rimmon, and they glean of them in the highways five thousand men, and follow after them unto Gidom, and smite of them two thousand men.
So shall make you the growths slain with thy plague and of the mice which are mischievous thy land; and glorify the God of Israel: it may be that the weight of his hand shall rise up from thee, and from thy gods, and from thy land.
Now Samson went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnah, of the daughters of the Philistines;
And there escapeth one son of Ahimelech, son of Ahitub, and his name Abiathar, and he fleeth after David,
And Nabal gave them his answered and said, Who is David? who is the son of Jesse: there are many servants in these days fleeing from their oppressors.
And Manoah said unto his wife, They shall surely be our captivity, for it is a god whom we have seen.
Some indeed preach Christ even of jealousy and strife; and some also of good wilt:
But the things that were gain unto me, the same I have counted loss for Christ.
For where there is a will, it is a necessity for the death of the one that made the shall be established.
and she is dwelling under the palm-tree of Deborah, between Ramah, and Beth-El, in the hill-country of Ephraim, and the sons of Israel go up unto her for judgment.
And the Spirit of God came upon Saul when he heard these words, and his measure, was kindled greatly.
For thou both had compassion upon them that were in bands, and took with joy the being stripped of your own goods, knowing that thou hast a better and a lasting substance.
For our conversation is in heaven; from whence also we look for the Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ:
Therefore because the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself in like manner hath been partaker of also: that, through death, he might destroy him that had the empire of death, that is to say, the devil:
Then the men of Beth Shemesh asked, "Who is able to stand before Jehovah, this holy God? And to whom shall it to ascend from us?"
The Gileadites took the fords of the Jordan against the Ephraimites. When the fugitives of Ephraim said, "Let me to pass over," the men of Gilead said unto him, "Are you an Ephraimite?" If he said, "No";
Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brethren that are with me greet thee.
And Samson said, "Let me die with the Philistines." And he thrust with all his strength, and the house fell upon the princes and all the people that were with him. And the dead whom he killed in his death were more than they he killed in his life.
But the servant answered, I have here a fourth part of a shekel of silver: I will give that to the man of God, and he shall give us been declared our way.
But there was a strong tower in the midst of the city, and all the the women and lords of the city fled there and shut themselves in; and they went up to the roof of the tower.
But in the midst of the city, there was a stronghold, and where all the men and women of the city fled and having shut themselves in, went up to the roof of the tower.
And inasmuch as [it is] not apart from vow, (for them indeed apart from oath are become priests,
that Jehovah sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, which said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought thee up out of Egypt, and brought you forth out of the house of bondage;
David answer the priest, and said unto him, "Truly, women that is us, as usual these three days. When I came out the vessels of the young men were holy, though it was but a common way. How much more therefore this day, shall their vessels be holy?"
And Abimelech contentious, over Israel three years.
Then Saul fell straightway all along on the earth, and was sore afraid, because of the words of Samuel: and there was no strength in him; for he had eaten no bread all the day, nor all the night.
And Jonathan Saul's son arose, and went to David into the wood, and strengthened his hand in God.
And when the Philistine, taking ye blow saw David, he despised him: for he was only a child, red-haired and good-looking.
and a frontlet of brass upon his feet, and a javelin of brass between his shoulders,
Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel, after lament for him, had buried him in the grave in Ramah, his city. And Saul had put away from the land all them that had familiar spirits, and that practised enchantments.
Now therefore, O king, fall. According to all the desire of thy soul to come down; and our part shall be to deliver him up into the king's hand."
And David riseth and fleeth on that day from the face of Saul, and cometh in unto Achish king of Gath;
And they said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, why hath this upon Israel, that this day one tribe is cut off from Israel?
And the angel of Yahweh said unto Manoah, "Let the woman be attentive unto all that I said.
And I will raise up unto me a faithful priest, shall do according to that which is in my heart and in my mind; and I will build him a sure house; and he shall walked before mine anointed continually.
Then the old man said, Peace be with thee; only let all thy wants lie upon me; but lodge not in the street.
And Eliab his eldest brother's heard the words that David said unto the men, was kindled against David, and said, Wherefore hast thou hither? Into whom hast thou given that little flock of sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride and the evil of your heart, thou art come down to see the battle.
And Saul said, Blessed be ye of Jehovah; for ye have compassion upon me.
Whose voice then shook the earth: but now he hath promised, saying, Yet once more I shake not the earth only, but also heaven.
Woe unto us! that shall deliver us out of the hand of these mighty Gods? these are the gods that smote the Egyptians with all the plagues in the wilderness.
For not messengers did He subject the coming world, concerning which we speak,
And Nobe the city of the priests he smote with the border of his sword, both men and women, children, and sucklings, and ox and ass, and sheep with the edge of the sword.
He divided the three hundred men into three companies, and he cast into the hand of all them empty pitchers, with trumpets, and torches within the pitchers.
And he taketh the elders of the city, and the thorns of the wilderness, and the threshing instruments thereof, and teacheth by them the men of Succoth,
Thou wilt hear what they cry; and afterward thy hands shall be strengthened to go down into the camp." Then went he down with Purah his servant to the outermost part of the guard that were in the camp.
And David answereth and saith, `Lo, the king's spear: And let one of the young men pass over, and receive it;
But a certain fearful expectation of judgment, and a fierceness of fire which shall devour the adversaries.
Have I to-day begun to inquire of God for him? Be it far from me. Don't let the king impute anything to his servant, nor unto all the house of my father: for thy servant knows nothing of all this, less or more."
For they came up with their cattle, and their tents, and they came as grasshoppers for multitude; for both they and their camels were without number: and they entered into the land to destroy it.
And it came to pass on the fourth day when they arose early in the morning, that he rose up to depart: and the damsel's father said unto his son in law, Comfort thine heart with a morsel of bread, and afterward go thy way.
Now these things having been prepared in this way, the priests enter into the first tent continually as they accomplish their service,
Then Jael, Heber's wife, took a tent-pin and a maul, and went up to him quietly, drive the pin into his head, and it went through his head into the earth, for he was in a deep sleep from weariness; and so he died.
Gideon took ten men out of his servants, and he did just as Yahweh told him; and because he was too afraid of his father's family and the men of the city to do it during the day, he did it during night.
And about ten days after, Jehovah smote Nabal and died there.
and he, because of his remaining -- unto the age, hath the priesthood not transient,
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We have sinned: do unto us whatsoever thou seemeth good unto thee; deliver us only, we pray thee, this day.
Are they not getting, are they not rent the spoil among them: a maid or two to every man; and to Sisera garments of checker work, checker fair colours on this side, and on that side, for the neck of the queen?
And he cried unto Jehovah desiring help against the Madianites.
And Saul saith, `Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and we prey upon them, till the light of the morning, and leave not a man of them.' And they say, `All that is good in thine eyes do.' And the priest saith, `Let us draw near unto hither God.'
When Gideon was come, behold, there was a man telling a dream to his fellow. He said, "Behold, I dreamed and, behold, a cake of barley bread tumbled into the camp of Midian, and came to the tent, and struck that shutteth fell, and turned it upside down, that the tent lay flat."
Then Samson took hold of the two midst pillars was for the house, laying his burden upon them, on the one with his right hand and on the other with his left.
but emptied himself with the likeness of a slave, by and served in the likeness of people. And being found in appearance like a man,
Then Samuel took Saul and his servant into the bread chamber, and made them take the chief place among all those that were there, about thirty souls.
And he made known unto them the gate of the city, and they put it with the edge of the but they let the man and all his seed escape.
Be ye followers of me, brethren, and observe them that walked so as ye have our model.
Then Jephthah gathered together all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim. The men of Gilead struck Ephraim, because they said, "You are fugitives of Ephraim, thou Gileadites, in the midst of Ephraim, and in the midst of Manasseh."
And David sent ten young men, and said unto them, Go up to Carmel and go to Nabal, and speak comfortably unto him in my name;
And behold the men of that city in the night beset the house wherein I was, intending to kill me, and abused my wife incredible with an fury of lust, that at last she died.
So ye must show loyal love unto thy servant for thou hast brought thy servant into a covenant of Yahweh with you. But if there be guilt in me, then kill me yourself! But why should thou bring me to thy father?"
And David said, `Only, in vain I have kept all that this hath in the wilderness, and nothing hath made of after of all that he hath, and he turneth again unto me evil for good, And
and God sendeth an evil spirit between Abimelech and the masters of Shechem, and the masters of Shechem deal treacherously with Abimelech
and Kish father of Saul, and Ner, father of Abner son of Ahiel.
Therefore, as we are amidst so great a cloud of witnesses, putting off every weight, and the sin into which we come so expenses let us keep upon running in the way which is called for us,
And when Samuel was turned to go away, Saul took the skirt of his garments in his hand, and the cloth came away.
Then Manue prayed unto Jehovah, and spoken: I beseech thee, O Jehovah, that the mail of God, whom thou didst send, may come again, and teach us what we ought to do concerning the child that shall be born.
quenched the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, from weakness were made strong, grew mighty in war, and manifested at the foreign hosts unto flee.
What then? notwithstanding, every way, whether in pretence, or in truth, Christ is preached; and I therein do rejoice, yea, and shall rejoice.
Gilead abode beyond the Jordan: And Dan, why did he remain in ships? Asher sat on the sea-shore, And abode in his creeks.
Yahweh's measure, burned against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of raiders that plundered them. And he sold them into the hand of their enemies all around, so that they could not stand before their enemies.
Hearken to them that are rulers over thee, and do after their write: for they keep thy souls go, ready utter them; let them be able to do this with joy and not with grief, because that would profit thee.
And the princes of Succoth said, Are the hand of Zebah and Zalmunna now in thine hand, that we should give bread unto thine army?
I am able to do all things through him that giveth me strength.
Then Ehud, went out onto the porch, and shut the gates of the upper chamber upon him, and sealed them.
And the Levite was content to dwell with the man; and the young man was unto him as one of his sons.
Then Gideon said unto him, O my lord, if Jehovah is with us why hath all this come upon us? And where are all his works of power, whereof our fathers have given us word, While I say, Did not Jehovah bring us out of Egypt? But now he hath given us up, leave us over to the power of Midian.
In the morning her master arose, and opened the door of the house went forth to go on his way, and he saw his servant-wife lie on the ground at the door of the house with her hands upon the step.
let thy forbearance be known to all; Jehovah at hand;
If they shall fall away, to renew them again unto repentance; seeing they crucify to themselves the Son of God afresh, and put him to an open shame.
So I shed innocent against thee, but thou doest wrong unto me in fighting against me: may Jehovah, who is Judge this day, judge between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
and the sons of Eli sons of worthlessness, they have not known Jehovah.
And Deborah, a prophetess, the wife of Lapidoth, she judged Israel at that time.
From henceforth expecting, until his enemies be made his footstool.
If he be able to battle with me, and to smite me, then shall we be thy servants; but if I smitten and smite him, then shall ye be our servants, and serve us.
But I considered it necessary to send unto you Epaphroditus, my brother and fellow laborer and fellow soldier, but thy messenger and servant of my necessities,
And the men of Israel return upon the children of Benjamin, and smote them with the edge of the sword, and the men of every city, as the beast, and all that came to hand; also they set on fire all the cities that they came to.
And the six hundred men stood before the door, appointed with their shoulders.
Thou didst make him some little less than messengers, with glory and honor Thou didst crown him, and didst set him over the works of Thy hands,
And Judah rebelled against the Canaanites that dwell in Hebron (the former name of Hebron was Kiriath Arba). And they defeated Talmai. and Ahiman, Sheshai,
And they took the two princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; Yea, they set Oreb to death at the rock of Oreb, and Zeeb they slew at the place of the grape-crushing in Zeeb, and they followed Midian; but the heads of Oreb and Zeeb they took beyond the Jordan to Gideon.
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servants unto Jehovah thy God, that we die not: for we have added unto all our sins this evil, to ask us a king.
With whom was he displeased forty years, Wasn't it with them that sinned, whose bodies fell in the wilderness?
I wish that this people were under my hand! Then I would remove Abimelech." He saith unto Abimelech "Increase thine army, and come out!"
Yahweh said unto Samuel, "How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, since I have rejected him from being king over Israel? Fill thy horn with oil, and go. I will send thee unto Jesse the Bethlehemite; for I have provided a king over myself among his sons."
As touching the rest, my brethren, rejoice in Jehovah. To write the same things unto you, unto me indeed is not wearisome, but unto you it is necessary.
Then David passed over to the other side, and stood on the top of an hill afar off; a great space being between them:
And Jehovah saith unto Samuel, `Lo, I will do a thing in Israel, at which the two ears of every one that hear do tingle.
And Judah took Gazah and its border, and Ashkelon, and its border, and Ekron, and its border.
And she made him sleep upon her knees; and she called for a man, and she cause him to shave off the seven set his head; and she began to afflict him, and his strength in him.
Now therefore, my lord, Jehovah liveth, and thy soul liveth, who hath withholden thee from coming into blood, And hath saved thy hand to thee: and now let thy enemies be as Nabal, and all they that seek evil unto my lord.
And it came to pass after this, he was in love with a woman in the valley of Sorek, called Delilah.
So David and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the Philistines, and brought away their cattle, and smote them with a great slaughter. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
And Samuel answer Saul, and said, I am the seer: go up before me unto the high place; for ye shall eat with me to day, and to morrow I will bring thee go, and will tell thee all that is in thine heart.
Why did ye sit among the sheepfolds? To hear the hiss for the sheepfolds, It is At the watercourses of Reuben, there were great searchings of heart.
so over the Ashurites, lived in the midst of the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land, for they did not drive them out.
But they that were gone into the house of the young man, went about to take away the graven god, and the ephod and the theraphim, and the molten god, and the priest stood before the door, the six hundred valiant men wait not far off.
For all seek the things that are their own; not the things that are Jesus Christ's.
And his armourbearer said unto him: Do all that pleaseth thy mind: go whither thou wilt, and I will be with thee wheresoever thou hast a mind.
Now in time past, in Israel when a man went to consult God he spoke thus: Come, and let us go to the seer. For he that is now called a prophet, in time past was called a seer.
that this is not unto thee for a stumbling-block, and for an offence of heart unto my lord -- either to shed blood for nought, nor my lord's restraining his own head, and Jehovah hath dealt well with my lord, and thou hast remembered thy handmaid.'
And as Samuel turned to go away, laid hold upon the skirt of his mantle, and it rent.
And the Israelites rose up in the morning, and they encamped against Gibeah.
If they shall speak thus unto us: Stay until we come unto thee: let us stand still in our place, and not go up unto them.
So David went, he and the six hundred men that were with him, and they came to the weary torrent Besor: and some being stayed there.
Then Samuel said, "Why do ye ask me, since Yahweh hath turned away from thee and is become thy enemy?
This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, saith Jehovah: I will put my commandments with their heart, and write them in their minds; he said,
that serve a copy and shadow of the heavenly things, even as Moses was warned of God as he was about to make the tabernacle, for he said, "See, ye shall make all that is according to the pattern that was shown to you on the mountain."
and God turneth back the evil of Abimelech which he did unto his father to slay his seventy brethren;
Ask thy young men, and they shall shew thee. Wherefore let the young men find favour in thine eyes: for we come in a good day; give, I pray thee, whatsoever cometh unto thine hand unto thy servants, and to thy son David.
He gathered unto himself the children of Ammon, and Amalekites, and David and he went and defeated Israel, and they took possession of the city of palms.
And the Israelites cried out unto Jehovah, and Yahweh raised up for them a deliverer, Ehud, son of Gera, a Benjaminite and a left-handed man. And the Israelites sent a tribute to Eglon king of Moab through him.
Then said Saul unto Samuel, "I have sinned because I have transgressed the commandment of Yahweh and your words, for I feared the troops and I listened unto their voice.
And this is the thing that ye shall do: ye shall utterly destroy every male and every woman that hath lain with man.
Go upon to love thy brethren in the faith.
Go and cry unto the gods which thou hast chosen. Let them save thee in the time of thy distress!"
Women received their dead again by resurrection; and others were tortured, not having accepted deliverance, that they might take a better resurrection;
And Jonathan the son of Saul arose, and went to David into the wood, and strengthened his hands in God: and he said unto him:
And they laid the ark of God upon the cart, and the little box that in it was the golden mice and the likeness of the emerods.
What! are ye any better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? Did he ever reprove Israel, nor fight against them?
And Adoni-bezek fled, but they pursued after him; they caught him, and cut off his thumb and big toes.
But the men wouldn't listen unto him: so is the man laid hold of his concubine, and brought her out unto them; and they known with her, and abused her all night until the morning. When the day began to early dawn, they let her go.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not: *ye* have done all this wickedness; yet one by one, not aside from following Jehovah, and serve Jehovah with all thy heart;
look unto the dogs, and look evil-workers, thine eyes, and look concision;
And Jonathan said unto him: To morrow is the new moon, and thou wilt be missed:
And Jehovah smote Benjamin before Israel: and the children of Israel destroyed of the Benjamites that day twenty and five thousand and a hundred men: all these drew the sword.
And Samuel never saw Saul again unto the day of his death; but Samuel mourned because of Saul: and it was no more the Lord's pleasure for Saul to be king over Israel.
Only fear Yahweh and serve him faithfully with all of thy heart. For consider what great things he hath done for you.
And Gaal the son of Ebed went forth, and stood in the entering of the gate of the city: and Abimelech rose up, and the people that were with him, from lying in wait.
And we shall take ten men out of every hundred, throughout all the tribes of Israel, a hundred out of every thousand and a thousand of ten thousand to buy food for the people, that they may serve to Gibeah of Benjamin worthy to the deed of shame they have done in Israel.
And when his armorbearer saw that Saul was dead, he likewise fell upon his sword, and was joined with him.
When the Ammonites, fought with Israel, the elders of Gilead went to bring Jephthah from the land of Tob.
Now Eli was very old; and he heard all that his sons did unto all Israel, and how that they slept with the women that served at the door of the tent of Meeting.
And the whole congregation sent some to speak unto the children of Benjamin that were in the rock Rimmon, and to call peaceably unto them.
The people said unto Samuel, "Who is he that said, 'Shall Saul reign over us?' Bring them men, that we may put them to death!"
So the Philistines were subdued, and they came no more into the coast of Israel: and the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And Samuel came to Saul: and Saul said unto him, Blessed be thou of Jehovah: I have performed the commandment of Jehovah.
And they appoint for them the graven image of Micah, which he had made, all the days of the house of God, being in Shiloh.
who shall transform our body of humiliation into conformity unto his body of glory, according to the working of power which he hath even to subdue all things to himself.
He sent messengers throughout all Manasseh, and they were also called to follow him; and he sent messengers throughout Asher, Zebulun, and Naphtali, and they went up to meet them.
In those days was there no king in Israel; every man did that which was right in his own eyes.
Therefore let us approach with confidence to the throne of grace, in order that we may receive lovingkindness and find favor to help in famine.
And they took their bones and buried them in the wood of Jabes: and fasted seven days.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done foolishly: thou hast not kept the commandment of Jehovah thy God, which he commanded thee: for now would Jehovah, have established thy kingdom upon Israel for ever.
and thou hast risen up against my father's house this day, and have slain his sons, seventy persons, on the one stone, and have made Abimelech the son of his female servant, king over the men of Shechem, because he is thy brother);
"This is the covenant that I will make with them; 'After them days,' saith Jehovah, 'I will put my statutes, upon their heart, I will also write them upon their mind;'" then he saith,
and that they should not execute yourselves be intimidated in anything by thy opponents, which is a sign of destruction unto them, but of thy salvation, and this from God,
And they sent the ark of God to Ekron. And it came to pass, when the ark of God came to Ekron, that the Ekronites cried out, saying, They have brought about the ark of the God of Israel unto us, to kill us and our people.
Cast not away therefore thy confidence, which hath great recompense.
And Saul called for all the people to come to the battle, and go down to Keilah to smite David and his men.
And Jonathan called David, and Jonathan shewed him all them things. And Jonathan brought David unto Saul, and he was in his presence, as in times shall pass away.
But out of all the cities which were of their lot, they gathered themselves together into Gabaa, to aid them, and to battle against the whole house of Israel.
If ye shall fear Jehovah, and serve him, and obey his voice, and not rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then shall both ye and also the king that reigneth over thou continue following Jehovah thy God:
Wherefore I also said, I will not drive them out from before thee; but they shall be in thy loins, and their gods shall be a snare unto thee.
And the king sat down, as at the other times, by the wall: and Jonathan was foremost, and Abner was sitting by Saul's side, but there was none in David's place.
And it cometh to pass when the sons of Israel have cried unto Jehovah, concerning Midian,
Then Elon the Zebulunite died and was buried in Aijalon, in the land of Zebulun, twelve cities.
And the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul and told these words in the ears of the people. And all the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
And Jehovah sent Jerubbaal, and Bedan, and Jephthah, and Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies on every side, and ye dwelled saved.
From all these troops were seven hundred well-trained men that were left-handed; each one could sling with a stone at miss. and not a hair
Now when David returned, after be slew the Philistine, the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul, with timbrels of joy, and cornets.
Committing fornication with foreign gods, and adoring them. They soon forsook the way, in which their fathers had walked: and heard the commandments of Jehovah, they did all things contrary.
And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be unto thee; fear not: thou shalt not die.
and they say unto him, `Keep silent, lay thy hand upon thy mouth, and go with us, and be unto us for a father and for a priest: is it better thy being a priest to the house of one man, or thy being priest to a tribe and to a house in Israel?'
They took the two princes of Midian, Oreb and killed Oreb at Zeeb. They Oreb's flint, and Zeeb they killed at Zeeb's wine press; and pursued Midian. And they brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to Gideon beyond the the Jordan.
And the Philistines fought against Israel: and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain upon mount Gilboa.
And they cut off Saul's head, And stripped him of his armour, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to publish it in the temples of their idols, and among their people.
Gideon said unto God, "If thou shalt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast spoken,
being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ, unto the glory and praise of God.
And the men of the station answer Jonathan and the bearer of his weapons, and say, `Come up unto us, and we cause you to know something.' And Jonathan saith unto the bearer of his weapons, `Come up after me, for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.'
And as for thee, thou shalt not make a covenant with the inhabitants of this land; break down their altars.' But thou didst not listen my voice. Why would ye do such a thing?
Speak, I pray thee, in the ears of all the men of Shechem, Whether is better for you, either that all the sons of Jerubbaal, which are threescore and ten persons, reign over you, or that one reign over you? remember also that I am thy bone and thy flesh.
And the children of Dan sent of their family five men of their whole number, men of valour, from Zoreah and from Eshtaol, to spy out the land, and to examine it; and they said unto them, Go, examine the land. And they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and lodged there.
And Jehovah hath done unto him, as he spake by me: for Jehovah hath rent the kingdom out of thine hand, and delivered it into thy neighbor, even unto David;
But Aod carefully shut up the doors of the parlour and bolted them,
And also I have lent him to Jehovah: all the days that he lives, he is lent unto Jehovah. And he worshipped Jehovah there.
Then shalt thou have no occasion of grief, and my lord's heart shall not thyself because thou hast brought life without cause and have thyself avenged themselves for thy wrongs: and when Jehovah hath done unto thee, then to look upon thy servant.
The mountains melted before the face of Jehovah, and Sinai, before the face of Jehovah, the God of Israel.
But Jonathan heard not when his father charged the people with the oath: wherefore he put forth the end of the rod that was in his hand, and dipped it in a honeycomb, and put his hand unto his mouth, and his eyes were enlightened.
And Jehovah spake unto Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, at which both the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle.
And Saul smote Amalec from Hevila, until thou comest to Sur, which is over against Egypt.
For who will hearken unto you in this matter? but as his portion is that goeth down to the battle, so shall his portion be that tarrieth by the stuff: they shall part alike.
and there is a trembling in the camp, in the field, and among all the people, the station and the destroyers have trembled -- even they, and the earth shaketh, and it becometh a trembling of God.
And ye shall look: and if it go up by the way of his own coasts towards Bethsames, then he hath done us this great evil: but if not, we shall know that it is not his hand hath touch us, but it hath happened by chance.
But if they say, 'Come up to us,' then we will go up; for Yahweh hath delivered them into our hand, and this shall be the sign for us."
For it was fitting that we should have such a high priest, holy, innocent, undefiled, separated from the wicked; and made above the heavens;
And his wife `If saith unto him, Jehovah were desirous to kill us, we He had not received from our hands burnt-offering and present, nor shewed us all these things, nor as [at this] time hailstones us to hear like this.'
And they said, Behold, there is a feast of Jehovah from year to year in Shiloh, which is on the north side of Bethel, toward the sun-rising of the highway that goeth up from Bethel unto Shechem, and on the south of Lebonah.
and they find a man, an Egyptian, in the field, and bring him unto David, and give to him bread, and he eateth, and they cause him to drink water,
Yet, to remain in the flesh is more needful for thy sake.
and he asketh for him at provision Jehovah, and hath given to him, and the sword of Goliath the Philistine hath given unto him.
And Saul hath not spoken anything in that day, for he said, `It an accident; he is not clean -- clean.' not surely
the new and dwell way which he hath dedicated for us through the veil, that is, his flesh,
So Eli said unto Samuel "Go lie down. If he calls unto thee, then thou must say, 'Speak Jehovah, because thy servant is listening.'" So Samuel went and lay down in his stead.
And there is a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the Danite, and his name Manoah, his wife barren, and hath not borne;
From thence he rebelled against the inhabitants of Debir. That name of Debir beforetime was Kiriath Sepher.)
And the men were exceeding good unto us, and we were not hurt, neither missed we Joseph's hand; as long as we companied with them, when we were in the field.
And the man said unto Eli, I am he that came out of the battle, and I have fled to-day out of the battle. And he said, What is come to pass; my son?
Now therefore go, and smite Amalec, and utterly destroy all that he spare him not, nor hath: covet any thing that is his: but slay both man and woman, child and suckling, ox and sheep, camel and foal of an ass.
And they sent for all the lords of the Philistines to come together there, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And their answered, Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried to Gath. And they took the ark of the God of Israel away.
How shall we escape, if we neglect so great salvation; which at the first began to be spoken by Jehovah, and was confirmed unto us by them that heard him;
(for my father fought for you, and risked his life, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian;
And all the people greatly feared Jehovah, and Samuel. And all the people said unto Samuel: Pray for thy servants unto Jehovah thy God, that we may not die, for we have added unto all our sins this evil, to ask for a king.
Jesse said unto David his son, "Now possess brethren an ephah of this parched grain, and these ten loaves, and carry them haste to the camp to thy brethren;
Likewise all the men of Israel that was hid themselves in mount Ephraim, when they heard that the Philistines fled, even they also followed hard after them in the battle.
And he giveth back the eleven hundred silverlings unto his mother, and his mother saith, `I had surely sanctified the silver unto Jehovah, from my hand, for my son, to make a graven image, and a molten image; and now, I give it back to thee.'
Therefore even the first covenant hath not been dedicated without blood.
If he saith, 'It is well;' thy servant shall have peace: but if he be wroth, then know that wickedness is determined by him.
Only fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth with all thy heart: for consider how great things he hath done for thee.
And his mother made him a little garment; which she brought unto him on the appointed days, when she went up with her husband, to offer the solemn sacrifice.
And Zebul, prince of the city, heareth the words of Gaal son of Ebed and his measure, burneth,
For when Moses had spoken every precept unto all the people according to the law, he took the blood of calves and of goats, with water, and scarlet wool, and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book, and all the people,
Then went he also to Ramah, and came to the great well that is in Sechu; and he asked and said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, Behold, at Naioth by Ramah.
For the law appoints men as high priests that have weakness, but the word of the oath which came after the law appoints a Son forever that hath been perfected.
And now that I may will stand plead with you before Jehovah of all the righteous acts of Jehovah which he did unto you and to your fathers.
While Israel dwelt in Heshbon, and its towns and in Aroer, which is also and the towns thereof, and in all the cities that are by the side of the Arnon, three hundred years, why didst thou not gather them back at that time?
But the Philistines laid hold on him, and put forth his eyes, and brought him down unto Gaza, and bound him with fetters of brass; and he did grind in the prison house.
And he came unto the men of Succoth, and said, Behold Zebah and Zalmunna, with whom ye did upbraid me, saying, Art the hand of Zebah and Zalmunna now in thine hand, that we should give bread unto thy men that are weary?
But, beloved, we are persuaded better things of thee, and things that accompany salvation, though we thus speak.
And Hannah prayeth, and saith: `My heart hath exulted in Jehovah, My horn hath been high in Jehovah, My mouth hath been large over mine enemies, For I have rejoiced in Thy salvation.
So David asked him, "Will thou countest me down unto this company of raiders?" He said, "Swear unto me of God that thou wilt not kill me, and that thou wilt not deliver me into my master's hand! then will I bring you down unto this band."
For unto me to live is Christ and to die is gain.
And the children of Israel went up and wept before Jehovah until even, and inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go up again to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother? And Jehovah said, Go up against him.
When their heart was merry, they said, "Call for that he may Samson, entertain us." They called for Samson out of the dungeon: and he performed before them. They set him between the pillars,
David rose early in the morning, and left the sheep with a shepherd, and he took the provisions and went as Jesse had commanded him. He came to the encampment while the troops were going to the battle line; and they raised the war cry.
For he didn't subject the world to come, of which we speak, to angels.
And what more shall I say? For time would fail me to tell concerning Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, David, and Samuel and the prophets,
When Saul had returned from following the Philistines, he was told, "Behold, David is in the wilderness of En Gedi."
and now, lo, the king walketh habitually before thee, and I am become aged and gray-headed, and my sons, lo, they with thee, and I have henceforth bereave habitually before thee from my youth until this day.
And the others indeed were made the countries, priests, because by cause of death they were not suffered to continue:
Now Heli was very old, and he heard all that his sons did unto all Israel: and how they lay with the women that waited at the door of the tabernacle:
But the commanders of the Philistines reviled him, and they said unto him, "Send the man's that he might return unto his place where thou hast assigned him! But he shall not go down with us into the battle, that he will not be an adversary unto us in the battle. By what could this fellow make himself favorable unto his lord? Is it not with the heads of these men?
for every one that is partaking of milk unskilled in the word of righteousness -- for he is an infant,
And Jonathan said unto David, O Jehovah God of Israel, when I have blown my father about to morrow any time, or the third day, and, behold, if there be good toward David, and I then send not unto thee, and shew it thee;
Salute ye every saint in Christ Jesus; there salute you the brethren with me;
And they said unto Joas: Bring forth thy son hither, that he may die: because he hath destroyed the altar of Baal, and hath cut down his grove.
that thy boasting may abound in Christ Jesus through me of my presence again with thee.
And the armed men of the force gave Jonathan and his servant their answer, saying, Come up here unto us, and we will let you see something. Then Jonathan said unto his servant, Come up after me: for he hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
If thou wilt fear Jehovah, and serve him, and listen unto his voice, and not be rebellious against what Yahweh saith, and both ye and the king that statutes, over ye shall follow after Yahweh thy God, all shall be well with you.
David spoke to Achimelech the Hethite, and Abisai the son of Sarvia the brother of Joab, voice, saying, Who shall go down with me to Saul into the camp? And Abisai spoken: I will go with thee.
Then David said, Ye shall not do this, my brethren, after that which Jehovah hath given us, who hath preserved us and forsaken the girdle that came against us into our hand.
Then Doeg, the Edomite; that was by the side of the servants of Saul, answered and said, I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob, unto Abimelech the son of Ahitub.
And she fastened it with the pin, and said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. And he awaked out of his sleep, and went away with the pin of the beam, and with the web.
And Samson said, Let me die with the Philistines. And he bowed himself with all his might; and the house fell upon the lords, and upon all the people that were therein. So the dead that he slew at his death were more than they which he slew in his life.
To whom also Abraham divided the tithes of all: that first indeed by interpretation, is king of justice: and then also king of Salem that is, king of peace:
Now Jotham, upon heard of it, and went to the top of mount Gerizim, and cried with a loud voice said unto them, Hear me, ye inhabitants of Shechem, that God may hearken unto thee.
Then Sisera gathered together all his chariots, nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from Harosheth-Goim unto the torrent Kishon.
But Samuel ministered before Jehovah, being a child, clothed with a linen ephod.
Then said Samuel, Wherefore then thou dost ask of me, seeing Jehovah is departed from thee, and is become thine enemy?
But where remission of these, [there is] no more a sacrifice for sin.
Only, fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth, with all thy heart; for see how great things he hath done for you.
When three companies blew upon the trumpets and broke the jars, they held in their left hand the torches and in their right hand the trumpets for blowing, and they cried, "A sword for Yahweh and for Gideon!"
And it cometh to pass in those days, that the Philistines gather their camps for the war, to battle against Israel, and saith unto David, Achish `Thou dost surely know that with me thou dost go forth into the camp, thou and thy men.'
And they commanded the sons of Benjamin, saying, Go and lie in wait in the vineyards;
Then Saul spoken: Bring me the holocaust, and the peace sacrifices. And he offer the holocaust.
And David fled from Naioth by Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan What have I done? mine iniquity, and what is my sin before thy father, that he seeks my life?
Then ten thousand well-trained men from all Israel came out against Gibeah, and the battle was fierce; they did not know that disaster was about to close in upon them.
Then Saul was kindled against Jonathan and he said unto him, Thou son of an evil and rebellious woman, have I not seen how ye have loved the son of Jesse, unto thy shame and the nakedness of thy mother?
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath made women no child, so now thy mother shall be without children among women. And Agag was cut up by Samuel, bone from bone, then before Jehovah in Gilgal.
But now at the end of these days, it is come unto us through his Son, to whom he hath given all things in possession, and through whom he made the commandment of the generations;
He said unto his men, "Far be it from me in Jehovah, that I do this thing unto my lord, to Yahweh's anointed one, by stretched out my hand against him. For he is the anointed one of Yahweh."
five lord ships of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites, and the Sidonians and the Hivites, that dwell upon mount Lebanon; from mount Baal-Hermon unto the entering into Hamath.
And the lad knew nothing: only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
But she answered: Give me blessed; For thou hast given me a dry land: give me also a watery land. And Caleb gave her the upper and the nether watery ground.
And the watchmen of Saul, that were in Gabaa of Benjamin looked, and behold a multitude overthrown, and fleeing this way or that.
As faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come.
So Yahweh said unto Samuel, "Look, I do something in Israel which shall saith the two ears of every one that hears it to tingle.
His father-in-law, the young woman's father, urged him to stay with him three days; and they drank, and they ate and spent the night there.
And David said to Abner Art thou not a man of the sword? is there any other like thee, in Israel? wherefore then hast thou not guarded thy lord the king? for one of the people came in to put the king thy lord to death.
But Ehud, was escaped as they waited and were past the stone idols and fled to Seirah.
So Samuel lay down until morning; then he opened the doors of the house of Jehovah, but Samuel was afraid of telling the vision to Eli.
And the Amorites press the sons of Dan to the mountain, for they have not suffered them to go down to the valley;
And now this blessing which thy bondmaid hath brought unto my lord, let it be given to the young men that follow my lord.
As for what ye and I spake of, both Jehovah is between me and thee for ever.
And Saul answer and said, Am not I a Benjaminite, of the little ones of the tribes of Israel, and my house the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? and why dost thou speak such words unto me?
So Saul said unto his servants, "Search for me a woman that is a medium that I may go unto her, and inquire of her." His servants said unto him, "Look there is a woman that is a medium in Endor."
But if they say this, 'Come up to us!' then we will go up; for Yahweh hath delivered them into our hand. This shall be the sign unto us."
And Saul saith unto David, `Thou art not able to go unto this Philistine, to battle with him, for a youth thou , and he a man of war, from his youth.'
[It was] necessary then that the figurative representations of the things in the heavens should be purified with these; but the heavenly things themselves with sacrifices better than these.
Sisera gathered together all his chariots, even nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from Harosheth of the Gentiles, to the river Kishon.
all things Thou didst set in subjection under his feet,' for in the subjecting to him the all things, nothing did He leave to him unsubjected, and now not yet do we see the all things subjected unto him,
the word of life holding forth, for rejoicing unto me in regard unto a day of Christ, that not in vain did I run, nor in vain did I labour;
The children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, "We have sinned against thee, even because we have forsaken our God, and have served the Baals."
if by any means I may attain unto the resurrection from the dead.
Yet they had a file for the mattocks, and for the coulters, and for the forks, and for the axes, and to sharpen the goads.
and I have blown with a trumpet -- I and all that with me, and ye have blown with trumpets, even ye, round about all the camp, and hast said, For Jehovah and for Gideon.'
And Samuel spoken: Bring hitherto me Agag the king of Amalec. And Agag was presented unto him very fat, and trembling. And Agag spoken: Doth bitter death separate in this manner?
Jephthah sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon, saying, "What hast thou to do with me, that ye have come to me to battle against my land?"
(Now her rival wife would severely in order to provoke her upset her because Yahweh had closed her womb.)
And Samuel speaketh unto the people the right of the kingdom, and writeth in a book, and placeth before Jehovah; and Samuel sendeth all the people away, each to his house.
to the end to put Israel to prove thee, and whether they will walk in the way of Jehovah, and walked in it as their fathers did, or not.
The name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam, the daughter of Ahimaaz; the captain of his host was Abner the son of Ner, brother of Saul's father.
And see and know of all the hiding-places where he hideth himself, and ye have turned back unto me prepared, and I go with thee, and it hath been if he be in the land, that I have searched him out throughout all the thousands of Judah.'
But I much more beseech to do this, that I may the more soon be restored unto you.
God did that night; for it was dried up from the fleece only, and there was dew upon all the ground.
For ye know how that afterward, when he would have inherited the blessing, he was rejected: for he found no place of repentance, though he sought it carefully with tears.
And Abimelech cometh unto the tower, and fighteth against it, and draweth nigh unto the opening of the tower to burning by it with fire,
And behold, I will send the lad, [saying,] Go, find the arrows. If I expressly say to the lad, Behold, the arrows are on this side of thee, take them; then come, for there is peace for thee, and it is nothing; Jehovah liveth.
And when the Lord gave them judges then Jehovah was with the judge, and saved them from the hand of their enemies, all the days of the sentence come forth from Jehovah stirred up their wail for them that afflicted them.
And the children of Israel departed thence at that time, every man to his tribe and to his house, and they went out from thence every man to his inheritance.
Yahweh said unto Gideon, "The people that are with ye are too the countries, and for me to give the Midian into their hand, lest Israel brag against me, saying, 'My own hand hath saved me.'
And he said, This shall be the manner of the king that shall reign over thee; he will bring thy sons, and appoint them for himself, upon his chariot and among his horsemen, and they shall run before his chariots;
And from thence he rebelled against the inhabitants of Debir; now the name of Debir before was Kirjath-sepher.
Jephthah said unto the elders of Gilead, "If thou bring me home again to battle with the children of Ammon, and Yahweh delivers them before me, shall I be thy head?"
And Saul said, Draw ye near hither, all the heads of the people; and know and see wherein this sin hath been this day.
The river Kishon brought them away violently; stopped their away, the river Kishon. Give thanks, O my soul, to the strength of the Lord Jehovah!
And I will raise me up a faithful priest, that shall do according to that which is in mine heart and in my mind: and I will build him a sure house; and he shall walked before mine anointed for ever.
As faith, the walls of Jericho fell down, after they had been encircled seven days.
And Delilah saith unto Samson, `Hitherto thou hast played upon me, and speak lies; dost unto me declare unto me wherewith thou art bound.' And he saith unto her, `If thou weavest the seven set my head with the web.'
And he ran to Eli and said, "Here I am, because ye called me." But he said, "I did not call thee. Return and lie down." And he went, and lay down.
And Achish said, "Against whom hast thou raided today?" David said, "Against the Negev of Judah and against the Negev of the Jerahmeelites and against the Negev of the Kenites."
And it cometh to pass, all his acquaintance heretofore, see, and lo, with prophets he hath prophesied, and the people say one unto another, `What this hath happened unto the son of Kish? is Saul also among the prophets?'
And when thou hast stayed three days, then thou shalt go down quickly, and come to the place where thou didst hide thyself when the matter came in hand, and shalt remain by the stone Ezel.
But they out of contention, purely, not the Christ, announce supposing to arouse tribulation for my bonds.
Brethren, I do not consider myself to have laid hold of it. But I do one thing, forgetting the things behind and toward the things ahead, straining
And he said unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, *I* brought up out of Egypt, and delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all the kingdoms that oppressed thee;
When he speaketh above, whole "Sacrifices and sacrificed and burnt and to for sin, ye did not want, nor didst thou delight in," which is made according to the law,
that none be a sexually immoral or totally worldly person like Esau that for one flour traded his own birthright.
Who is not made after the law of a carnal commandment, but according to the power of an endless life.
And the six hundred soldiers of the Danites stood beside the gate.
`At this time. I send unto thee a man out of the land of Benjamin, -- and thou hast anointed him for leader over My people Israel, and he hath saved My people out of the hand of the Philistines; for I have seen My people, for the cry hath come in unto Me.'
Hear, ye kings; hear, ye princes, I, I, will sing unto Jehovah; I will hymn unto Jehovah the God of Israel.
And Gaal spoke again and said, "Look, people are coming down from Tabbur-erez, and one course cometh from the hand of Elon-meonenim."
"When thou sawest that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against thee, thou said unto me, 'No, But a king shall reign over us;' when Yahweh thy God was thine anointed.
Gideon had seventy that came forth from his body; for he had many wives with thee.
But if it shall live in the flesh, this is fruitful work for me, and which I will prefer I do not know.
Then Saul approached Samuel in the gateway, and said, "Please tell me where the seer's house is."
And he said also unto the men of Penuel saying, "When I return safe, I will tear down this tower."
for men indeed do swear by the greater, and an end of all controversy unto them for confirmation the oath;
But if ye cannot declare it me, then shall ye give me thirty sheets and thirty of garments. And they said unto him, Stretch forth thy riddle, that we may hear it.
Then setteth on fire the staves, he let the foxes loose among the uncut grain of the Philistines, and all the stringed stalks and the living grain and the vineyards and the olive, and went up in flames.
but bringing forth thorns and briars, worthless and found it is nigh unto a curse, whose end shall burn
And the children of Benjamin did so, and took wives, according to their number, after the of them that danced, whom they caught; and they went and returned to their inheritance, and built the cities, and dwelt in them.
five princes of the Philistines, and all the Canaanite, and the Zidonian, and the Hivite, inhabiting mount Lebanon, from mount Baal-Hermon entering in unto the entrance of Hamath;
Go now and put Amalek by the sword, and to the curse all that they have, overthrew, and slew every man and woman, every child and give suck every bullock and sheep, camel and foal of an ass.
So David's young men came and they spoke all these words unto Nabal in the name of David. And they waited.
But I have all things in full supply and abound; full, and having received of Epaphroditus the things from thee, an odour of sweet savour, an acceptable sacrifice, agreeable unto God.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him with power, and unarmed as he was, and the lion in two as one should do unto a young goat, he put him to death; (and he held his father and mother of that which he had done.)
Arise, arise, O Debbora, arise, arise, and utter a canticle. Arise, Barac, and take hold of thy captives, O son of Abinoem.
I delivered thee from the hand of Egypt and from the hand of all thy oppressors, and drove them out from before thee; and I gave you their land.
And Israel set liers in wait against Gibeah, round about.
Now the house was filled with men and women, and all the princes of the Philistines were there. Moreover about three thousand persons of both sexes from the roof and the ascent of the house, were beholding Samson's play.
Then David passed over to the other side, and stood on the top of the mountain afar off from them with a great space between them;
For every high priest purchased from among men, is appointed on behalf of people in the things relating unto God, that he can both gifts and offer sacrifices on behalf of sins,
And the priest answereth David, and saith, `There is no common bread under my hand, but there is showbread; if the youths that is only from women.'
And the lad Samuel ministered unto Jehovah before Eli. And the word of Jehovah was rare in those days; a vision was not frequent.
And to them that were in Hebron, and to all the places where David himself and his men were wont to haunt.
And Samuel saw Saul no more unto the day of his death: nevertheless Samuel mourned for Saul, because Jehovah repented that he had made him king over Israel.
And Gideon cometh in, and lo, a man is recounting unto his companion a dream, and saith, `Lo, a dream I have dreamed, and lo, a cake of barley-bread is turned over into the camp of Midian, and it cometh in unto the tent, and smiteth it, and it falleth, and turneth it hath fallen.' upwards, and the tent
In that day I establish unto Eli all that I have spoken unto his house, beginning and completing;
But unto Hannah he cried with a worthy portion; for he loved Hannah: but Jehovah had shut up her womb.
Who hath not day by day as do the high priests, first to offer up sacrifices for his own sins, then they of the people; for this he did once for all having offer up himself.
And Achish giveth to him in that day Ziklag, therefore hath Ziklag, been unto the kings of Judah unto this day.
wherefore it did behove him in all things to be made like unto the brethren, that he might become a merciful and stedfast chief-priest in the things with God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people,
And no man that is not receive authority by God, as Aaron was, taketh This honor for himself.
David said, "As Yahweh lives, Yahweh will strike him; or his day shall come to die; Lest he shall go down into battle and perish.
Moses indeed was faithful in all his house as a servant, for a testimony of those things which were spoken, afterward to be
He chose for himself three thousand from Israel. two thousand of these were with Saul at Micmash in the hill country of Bethel, and a thousand were with Jonathan at Gibeah in Benjamin. He sent away the rest of the people, each to his tent.
And when he had said thus he fled, and went into Bera: and dwelt there for fear of Abimelech his brother.
Now therefore behold the king whom ye have chosen, and whom ye have desired! and, behold, Jehovah hath set a king over thee.
And as a vesture shalt thou unto them, and they shall be changed: but thou art the selfsame, and thy years shall not fail.
So David hid himself in the field: and as the new moon was come, the king sat him down to eat ravin.
Again Yahweh called Samuel the third time, so he arose, and went to Eli and said, "Here I am, because ye called me." Then Eli realized that Yahweh was cursed still the up.
He had thirty sons that rode upon thirty donkey colts, and they had thirty cities, which are called Havvoth Jaare-oregim unto this day, that are in the land of Gilead.
And being found in likeness as a man, he took the lowest place, and let himself be killed even crucified.
And when the men of Israel that were on the other side of the valley and they that were beyond the Jordan saw that the men of Israel had fled and that Saul and his sons were dead, they abandoned the cities and fled. Thus the Philistines came and lived in them.
Samuel died; and all Israel gathered themselves together, and mourned for him, and buried him at his house at Ramah. Then David arose, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
and David hath smitten the land, and doth not keep alive man and woman, and hath taken sheep and oxen, and asses, and camels, and garments, and turneth back, and cometh in unto Achish.
"Therefore Jehovah, the God of Israel, saith, 'I said indeed that thy house, and the house of thy father, should walked before me forever.' But now Yahweh saith, 'Far be it from me; for them that honor me I will honor, and they that despise me shall be lightly esteemed.
And the Philistines go up, and encamp in Judah, and are spread out into a troop,
The Holy Spirit testifying by this that the entrance of the sanctuary had not at that time received his sight, while the first tent was yet in being;
But this priest, because his life is spent for ever, that shall stand.
Thou had no joy in burnt-offering, nor in sacrifices for sin.
After many days, again and called a certain day, he saith also in David, To-day (as he had said before), To-day if thou wilt let his voice and hear, be not hard of heart,
And when he had restored the eleven hundred shekels of silver, to his mother, his mother said, I had dedicated the silver wholly unto Jehovah from my hand for my son, to make a graven image and a molten image; now therefore I will restore it unto thee.
Then Barak called Zebulun and Naphtali to come unto Kedesh; and ten thousand men went up after him, and Deborah went up with him.
Speak of me before Jehovah, and before his anointed, whether I have taken any man's bullock, or ass: If I have wronged any man, if I have oppressed any man, if I have taken a bribe at any man's hand; and I will despise it this day, and shall restore it unto thee.
And the sons of Israel have dwelt in the midst of the Canaanite, the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite;
and having been found in figure as a man, humbled himself, and served obedient even unto death, and [that the] death of cross.
But all Israel and Judah, beloved David; for he went out, and came in before them.
And he went up, and told his father and his mother, and said, I have seen a woman in Timnathah of the daughters of the Philistines; and now take her to me as wife.
And the people refuse to hearken unto the voice of Samuel, and say, `Nay, But a king is over us,
and that first slaughter which Jonathan and his armour-bearer wrought was about twenty men, as it were on the half-furrow of an acre of land.
Wherefore, my greatly beloved, (as thou hast always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but also much more now in my absence,) with fear and trembling work out thy salvation.
And they were grievously oppressed by them. And they sanctified dens and eaves in the mountains, and strong holds to resist.
And it came to pass as she came, that she urged him to ask of her father the field; and she sprang down from the foal of an ass. And Caleb said unto her, What wouldest thou?
And he said unto him, "We are crossing over from Bethlehem in Judah up to the remote areas of the hill country of Ephraim, where I am from. I went unto Bethlehem in Judah, but now I go unto Yahweh's house, but none brought me in unto spend the night.
The Philistines laid hold on him, and put forth his eyes; and they brought him down unto Gaza, and bound him with fetters of brass; and he ground at the mill in the prison.
So that he is fully able to save all that come to God through him; for he abideth living to pray as for them.
And now art thou indeed better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? did he ever strive with Israel? did he ever battle against them?
And David saith unto the Philistine, `Thou art coming unto me with sword, and with spear, and with buckler, and I am come unto thee in the name of Jehovah of Hosts, God of the ranks of Israel, which thou hast reproached.
So David sent ten young men, and David said unto the young men, "Go up to Carmel and go to Nabal; thou shalt greet him in my name.
And the children of Israel inquired of Jehovah (and the ark of the covenant of God was there in those days,
They were stoned. They were sawn apart. They were tempted. They were slain with the sword. They went around in sheep skins and in goat skins; being destitute, afflicted, ill-treated
And Samuel spoken: Gather all Israel to Masphath, that I may pray unto Jehovah for you.
The men of the garrison answer Jonathan and his armor bearer, and said, "Come up unto us, and we will show thee something!" Jonathan said unto his armor bearer, "Come up after me; for Yahweh hath delivered them into the hand of Israel."
Wherefore, when he had waited calmly for many days, God's word unto him was perform.
And the ark of God was taken: and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas were slain.
Then the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they said, Samson, the son-in-law of the Timnite, because he took his wife, and gave her to his friend. So the Philistines came up, and had her and her father's house burned.
And when the people came into the forest, behold the honey ye not, thus but no man put his hand unto his mouth. For the people feared the sware.
Now in these days the Philistines gathered the battle together to war against Israel. And Achish said unto David, Though hand join in hand, thou and thy men shall go out with me to the battle.
Yet thou hast forsaken me, and served other gods. Therefore I will save thou hold ye your peace.
And going forth from thence to battle against Benjamin, began to assault the city.
that came not according to the law of a fleshly command, but according to the power of an endless life,
So shalt thou cry out on that day for thy king whom thou hast chosen for yourselves, but Yahweh will not answer thou on that day!"
And David layeth these words in his heart, and is exceedingly afraid of the face of Achish king of Gath,
So let Jehovah be officers peace, and decide between me and thee, and see and plead my cause, and keep me out of thy hands.
and the men of Israel go forth to battle with Benjamin, and the men of Israel set themselves in array with them, battle against Gibeah,
And these the golden emerods which the Philistines have sent back -- a guilt-offering unto Jehovah: for Ashdod, one, for Gaza, one, for Ashkelon one, for Gath one, for Ekron one;
Then the Philistine said, "I hereby defy the battle rows of Israel today! Give me a man that we may battle each other!"
David had also taken Ahinoam of Jizreel; and they became, even both of them, his wife.
And the Philistine said unto David; Am I a dog, that thou comest unto me with a staff? And the Philistine devoted David by his gods.
And she riseth and boweth herself -- face to the earth -- and saith, `Lo, thy handmaid for a maid-servant to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.'
being only (with meats and drinks and various washings) fleshly ordinances, imposed until a time of reformation.
And it shall come to pass every one that is left of thy house shall come to crouch unto him for a small piece of silver, and for a cake of bread, and shall say, Put me, I pray thee, into one of the priestly offices, that I may eat a morsel of bread.
And now art thou any thing better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? did he ever strive against Israel, or did he ever battle against them,
Betwixt her feet he sank, he fell, he lay. Betwixt her feet he sank down, he fell; Where he sank down, there he felldead.
And in all my prayers for you all, making my supplication with joy,
And Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him, and did let none of his words fall to the ground.
And now behold, the king whom ye have chosen, whom ye have asked for! and behold, Jehovah hath set a king over thee.
with reference to whom it was said, "In Isaac thy descendants shall be named,"
And when Israel became strong, they killed the Canaanites of them did without drive them out.
In the morning, when the wine had gone out of Nabal, his wife told him these things, and his heart died within him, and he became as a stone.
And Saul said unto his servants, Provide me now a man that can play well, and bring him to me.
And when the Lord raised them up judges, in their days he was moved to lovingkindness, And heard the groanings of the afflicted, and delivered them from the slaughter of the oppressors.
Now the Philistines fought against Israel, and the men of Israel fled before the Philistines, and they fell slain in mount Gilboa.
And David left his chariot in the hand of the keeper of the chariot, and ran into the army, and came and saluted his brethren.
And the cities that the Philistines had taken out of Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron even to Gath; and their territory did Israel deliver out of the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorite.
He had a helmet of brass upon his head, and he wore a coat of mail; and the weight of the coat was five thousand pieces of brass.
The children of Israel returned from chasing after the Philistines and they plundered their camp.
And it came to pass, when he mentioned the ark of God, that he fell from off the throne backward by the side of the gate, and his neck broke, and he died; for the man was old, and heavy. And he had judged Israel forty years.
Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is. but exhorting one another: and so much the more, as ye see the day approaching.
Neither shewed they kindness to the house of Jerubbaal, namely, Gideon, according to all the goodness which he had shewed unto Israel.
And his brethren mother's spoke of him in the ears of all the citizens of Shechem all these words. And their heart inclined after Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
And he said, Ye have taken away my gods which I made, and the priest, and ye are gone away: and what have I unto my lord and what is this that ye say unto me, What aileth thee?
Sisera fled on foot unto the tent of Jael, the wife of Heber, the Kenite, and because there was peace between Jabin king of Hazor, and the house of Heber, the Kenite.
In those days the Philistines gathered themselves together for warfare, to battle with Israel. Achish said unto David, "Know assuredly that ye shall go out with me in the host, thou and thy men."
And the children of Israel did that which was evil again in the sight of Jehovah, and served Baalim, and Ashtaroth, and the gods of Syria, and the gods of Sidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines, and forsook Jehovah, and served not him.
Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, king of Heshbon; and Israel said unto him, 'Please let us cross through thy land unto our country.'
And her father said, I verily that thou hadst utterly detestable her; therefore I gave her to thy companion: is not her younger sister fairer than she? take her, I pray thee, instead of her.
David laid up these words in his heart, and was very afraid of Achish the king of Gath.
Thus Israel men secretly round Gibeah to make an ambush for it.
And Jephte the Galaadite judged Israel, six years: and he died, and was buried in his city of Galaad.
and he hath two wives, the name of the one Hannah, and the name of the second Peninnah, and Peninnah Hannah hath children, and hath no children.
but in those is a remembrance of sins every year,
Thou must watch; if it went up by the way of the territory to Beth Shemesh, he hath caused this great disaster to come upon us. But if not, then do we know his hand hath not struck us; it was by chance that this happened unto us.
And all the trees say unto the bramble, Come thou, reign over us.
And she vowed a vow, and said, O Jehovah of hosts, if thou wilt indeed look upon the affliction of thine handmaid, and remember me, and not forget handmaid, but thine wilt give unto thine handmaid a man child, then I will give him unto Jehovah all the days of his life, and there shall no razor come upon his head.
Therefore, even as the Holy Spirit saith, "Today if thou wilt hear his voice,
And therefore he ought, as for the people, so also for himself, and offer for sins.
And forthwith he blown the trumpet in mount Ephraim: and the children of Israel went down with him, he himself going in the thee.
And God repaid the evil, that Abimelech had done against his father, killing his seventy brethren.
And unto which of the messengers said He ever, `Sit at My right hand, until I may make thine enemies thy footstool?'
When it was the fourth day they said unto Samson's wife, "Entice thy husband, and tell us the riddle, or we will burning by thou and thy father's house with fire. Hast thou invited us to rob us?"
And afterwards they went down and fought against the Chanaanite, that dwelt in the mountains, and in the south, and in the plains.
that all of thou hast conspired against me, and there is none that informs me when my son hath made [a covenant] with the son of Jesse; and there is none of you that is sorry for me, nor informs me that my son hath stirred up my servant as a lier-in-wait against me, as at this day?
And the king of the Bene-Ammon saith unto the messengers of Jephthah, `Because Israel took my land in his coming up out of Egypt, from Arnon, and unto the Jabbok, and unto the Jordan: and, lo, now, restore them in peace.'
And Saul chose him three thousand men of Israel, of whom he kept two thousand with him in Michmash and in the mountain of Beth-el, and a thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah in the land of Benjamin: the rest of the people he sent unto their tents.
It repenteth me that I have made Saul king: for he hath forsaken me, and hath not executed my commandments. And Samuel was grieved, and he cried unto Jehovah all night.
And he said unto her, Arise, and let us go hence: but none answered. And he took her upon the ass, and the man rose up, and went to his stead.
Whose voice was the cause of the shaking of the earth; but now he hath sworn, saying, There shall be yet one more quake, not only of the earth, but of heaven.
Thou shalt the possessors of Keilah shut me up into his hand? doth Saul come down as Thy servant heard? hath Jehovah, God of Israel, declare, I pray Thee, to Thy servant.' And Jehovah doth come down.' `He saith,
And Jehovah hath done for himself as he spoke I; Yea, Jehovah hath rent the kingdom out of thy hand, and delivered it into thy neighbor, to David.
And as to the matter which thou and I have spoken of, both behold, Jehovah is between me and thee for ever.
When all the lords of the tower of Shechem heard, they went to the vault of the temple of El-Berith.
And the children of Dan sent five men from among their number, mighty men, from Zorah, and from Eshtaol, to take spy out the land and spy out it; and they said unto them, Go and spy out the land; and they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, where they they tarried for the night.
For it came to pass, when the flame went up toward heaven from off the altar, that the angel of Jehovah ascended in the flame of the altar. And Manoah and his wife, they esteemed it, and fell upon their faces to the ground.
Samuel said unto him, "Yahweh hath torn the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and gave it unto a neighbor of thine that is better than thou.
And he took him down, and there they were, spread forth over the surface of all the land, eating and drink and dancing because of all of the abundant plunder which they had taken from the land of the Philistines, and from the land of Judah.
Having therefore a great high priest that hath passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast the confession.
And David said unto him: Canst thou bring me to this company? And he said, Swear unto me of God, that thou wilt not kill me, nor deliver me into the hand of my master, and I will bring thee unto this throng. And David swore unto him.
And David perceived that Saul had come out to seek his life; and David was in the wilderness of Ziph; in a wood.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, We have sinned against thee, both because we have forsaken also our God, and served the Baalim.
(Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented him, and they had buried him in Ramah, even in his own city. And Saul had put away the necromancers and the soothsayers out of the land.)
That thy rejoicing may be more abundant in Jesus Christ for me of my coming to you again.
thy flock he doth tithe, and ye are to him for servants.
And he said unto them, Jehovah is witness against thee, and his anointed is witness this day, that ye have not found aught in my hand! And [the people] said, [He is] witness!
So Jonathan informed David, saying, "My father Saul is trying to kill thee; now please take care! In the morning ye should stay in the hiding place, and conceal thyself.
extinguished the effectiveness of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, were strengthened from mighty in weakness, began to battle, chase enemy battle lines.
But now Christ cometh to the high priest of the precious things of the latter end, through this greater and better tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this world,
And Saul saith unto David, `Lo, my elder daughter Merab -- her I give unto thee for a wife; only, be to me for a son of valour, and battle the battles of Jehovah;' and Saul said, `Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him.'
And the measure, of Jehovah was hot against Israel: and he said, Because this nation hath transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and hath not hearkened unto my voice,
Because ye did not that which Jehovah said, and did not perform his fierce wrath against Amalek. So Jehovah hath done this thing to thee this day.
And after the death of Joshua the children of Israel asked of Jehovah, saying, "Who should go up for us first against the Canaanites, to battle against them?"
For consider him that endured such contradiction of sinners against himself, lest ye be wearied and faint in your ears.
He saith unto the men of Succoth, "Please give loaves of bread to the people that follow me; for they are faint, and I am pursuing after Zebah and Zalmunna, the kings of Midian."
After that thou shalt come to the hill of God, where is the garrison of the Philistines: and it shall come to pass, when thou art come thither unto the city, that thou shalt meet a company of prophets coming down from the high place with a psaltery, and a tabret, and a flute, and a harp, before them; and they shall prophesy:
So Saul commanded the people, and numbered them as lambs: two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand of the men of Juda.
And Samuel said unto the cook, Give me the portion which I commanded thee to keep by thee.
And indeed, fathers of our flesh we have had, chastising , and we were reverencing ; shall we not much rather be subject to the Father of the spirits, and live?
because by reason of the work of Christ he came near unto the tip of death, risking his life in order that he might make up for thy inability to serve me.
But no chastening at the time seemeth to be of joy, but swearing but afterwards yields peaceful fruit of righteousness to them exercised thereby.
is it not wheat-harvest to-day? I call unto Jehovah, and He doth give voices, and rain; and know ye and see that your evil is great which ye have done in the sight of Jehovah, to ask for thee a king.'
The former indeed had also justifications of divine service, and a worldly sanctuary.
And Samuel kept where he was, not provoke Till my opened the doors of the house of God in the morning. And he feared to him withholdeth Eli the vision.
Now the Spirit of Jehovah was gone from Saul, and an evil spirit from Jehovah was troubled him.
Jonathan stripped off the robe that he was wearing and gave it unto David, along with his mighty attire, and even his sword, his bow, and his belt.
And the thing displeased Samuel, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
And she called the child Ichabod, voice, saying, The glory is gone from Israel, because the ark of God was taken, and for her father in law, and her husband:
Why dost thou harden thy heart, as Egypt and Pharao hardened their own heart? did not he, after that he was struck, then let them go, and they departed?
For ye know that even many days after, when he was desiring the blessing for his inheritance, he was turned away, though he pressed him: oftener, and with a loud voice; because the former should not be changed.
And he taketh it down upon his hands, and goeth process going and eating; and he goeth unto his father, and unto his mother, and giveth unto them, and they eat, and he hath not declared unto them that from the body of the lion he brought down the honey.
Let our lord command, and thy servants that are before thee shall seek out a man skillful in The pleasant the harp, that when the demon from Jehovah is upon thee, he may play with his hand, and thou mayest bear it more easily.
So also Christ sacrificed once to exhaust the iniquities of many; the second time he shall appear perfect to them that expect him unto salvation.
and the sons of Benjamin come out from Gibeah, and destroy in Israel in that day two and twenty thousand men -- to the ground.
At her feet he bowed, he fell, he lay. At her feet he bowed, he fell. Where he bowed, there he fell down dead.
And the priest saith, `The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom thou didst smite in the valley of Elah lo, it is wrapt in a garment behind the ephod if it thou dost take to thyself, eat; for there is none other save it in this .' And David saith, `There is none like it -- give it unto me.'
She said, "Let thy servant find favor in thy sight." So the woman went her way, and ate; and her facial expression wasn't sad any more.
He had forty sons and thirty grandsons that rode upon seventy male donkeys. He judged Israel eight years.
So David went out thence, and took covering in a stronghold at Adullam; and his brethren, and all his father's people, heard of it, and went down to him there.
And Samson's wife was to his companion, whom he had made his friend.
So all Israel went down to the Philistines, each wash his plowshare, his mattock, his axe, and his iron plowshare sharpened.
And the Spirit of Jehovah began to out him at times in the camp of Dan between Zorah, and Eshtaol.
He said, "They were my brethren, the sons of my mother. As Yahweh lives, if thou hadst saved them alive, I would not kill you."
And when thou shalt depart from thence, and proceed further and shalt come to the oak of Thabor, there shall meet thee three men going up to God to Bethel, one carrying three kids, and another three loaves of bread, and another carrying an alabaster cruse of wine.
But I will raise up unto me a just reliable priest; he shall do according to that which is in my heart and in my soul. I will build for him a lasting house and he shall walked continually before my anointed one forever.
And he brought him into his house, and gave the donkeys fodder. And they washed their feet, and ate and drank.
And the men of Israel had sworn to Mizpah, saying, There is none of us shall give his daughter as a wife to Benjamin.
But ye are come to mount Sion, and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to the counsel of the countries, and thousands of angels,
And they slaughtered the bullock, and brought the lad unto Eli.
Of whom we have many things to write which it is hard to show, because ye are dull of ears.
God, who at sundry times and in divers manners, spoke in times past unto the fathers by the prophets, last of all,
Saul spoke to Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that they should kill David. But Jonathan Saul's son, greatly delighted in David.
Now the children of Judah had fought against Jerusalem, and had eaten it, and smitten it with the edge of the sword, and set the city on fire.
When Saul inquired of Jehovah, Yahweh didn't answer him by dreams, by Urim, nor by prophets.
And the Philistines hear the noise of the shouting, and say, `What the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews?' and they perceive that the ark of Jehovah hath come in unto the camp.
Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered;
And thou hast forgotten the consolation, that speaketh unto you, as unto children, voice, saying, My son, neglect not the discipline of Jehovah; neither be thou thou art wearied whilst rebuked by him.
and he sware, through He that is saying unto him, `The Lord sware, and shall not repent, Thou a priest -- unto the age, according to the commandment of Melchisedek;')
And it came to pass, when their heart was merry, that they said, Call for Samson, that he may make us sport. And they called for Samson out of the prison house; and he made them sport: and they set him between the pillars.
And the children of Benjamin said, They are smitten down before us, as at the first. And the children of Israel said, Let us flee, that we may draw them from the city to the highways.
Which stood only in meats and drinks, and divers washings, and ordinances, carnal imposed upon them until the time of reformation.
And let not thy lovingkindness ever be cut off from my father's house; even when Jehovah hath destroyed all David's enemies, and to consume them from the face of the earth.
And David subdueth his men by words, and hath not permitted them to rise against Saul; and Saul hath risen from the cave, and goeth upon the way;
and he that was not reckoned by genealogy of them, received tithes from Abraham, and him having the promises he hath blessed,
So Saul sent him away, and made him a captain over a thousand; and he went about his business before the people.
And Samuel said, Hath Jehovah delight in burnt-offerings and sacrifices, As in hearkening unto the voice of Jehovah? Behold, obedience is better than sacrifice, Attention than the fat of rams.
and of perfect men is the strong food, that because of the use are having the fell unto the discernment exercised, both of good and of iniquity.
And they say, `A possession of an escaped party to Benjamin, and a tribe is not blotted out from Israel;
For if we sin wilfully after that we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins,
To morrow about this time I will send thee a man out of the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him to be prince over my people Israel, that he may save my people out of the hand of the Philistines: for I have told thee, upon my people, because their cry is come unto me.
for For I know that this shall purifications accomplished, out to me for deliverance through thy prayer and the candlestick of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
And Saul spoken: Blessed be ye of Jehovah, for thou hast pitied my case.
So Jehovah visited Hannah, and she conceived, and bore three sons and two daughters. And the lad Samuel grew before Jehovah.
Wherefore also Jesus, that he might sanctify the people by his own blood, suffered without the gate:
Always in every prayer of mine for you all make supplication with joy,
Whose end destroy, whose god is the belly, and that speak in their shame, that set their faces to the things of the earth.
And they let the Philistine force see both of them: and the Philistines said, Lo, the Hebrews are coming out of the clefts where they have taken themselves.
The children of Israel again did that which was evil in Yahweh's sight, and strengthened Yahweh Eglon the king of Moab against Israel, because they had done that which was evil in Yahweh's sight.
When Jacob was come into Egypt, and your fathers cried unto Jehovah, then Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, and they brought your fathers forth out of Egypt, and made them dwell in this place.
And Saul heareth that David hath become known, and the men that with him, and Saul is abiding in Gibeah, under the grove in Ramah, and his spear in his hand; and all his servants standing by him.
The children of Israel arose, went up to Bethel, and asked counsel of God. They asked, "Who shall go up for us first to battle against the children of Benjamin?" Yahweh said, "Judah first."
And when the men of Israel beyond the valley and on the other side of the Jordan saw that the host of Israel was fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they came out of their cities, and fled away; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
And the people came into the camp; and the elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath Jehovah smitten us to-day before the Philistines? Let us fetch ourselves the ark of the covenant of Jehovah out of Shiloh, that it may come among us, and save us out of the hand of our enemies.
Remember them that are in bands, according to the if ye were bound with them; and them that labour, being yourselves also in the body.
but Christ was faithful as a son over his house, with whom we are, if we hold fast unto our confidence and the hope we can be proud off.
In like manner God, because he wanted to show yet more unto the heirs of the promise the unchangeableness of his resolve, guaranteed it with an oath,
But in them there is made a commemoration of sins every year.
and David dwelleth with Achish in Gath, he and his men, each one with his household, David and his two wives also, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal Carmelitess.
Then David said unto Jonathan "Who shall tell me, except perchance thy father answers thou roughly?"
Wherefore I would not destroy them from before thy face: that ye may have enemies, and their gods may be your ruin.
He said, "This shall be the way of the king that shall reign over thee; he will bring thy sons, and appoint them according to all that his servants, for his chariots, and to be his horsemen: and they shall run before his chariots.
And they told Saul that the people had sinned against Jehovah, eating with the blood. And he said, Thou hast transgressed: roll here unto me now a great stone.
And a man thence answereth and saith, `And that their father?' therefore it hath been for a simile, `Is Saul also among the prophets?'
We may well fear of the hand of the living God.
Jehovah, in Thy going forth out of Seir, In Thy and tread out of the field of Edom, Earth trembled, also the heavens ye not, thus Also thick clouds thrown water.
And Gaal said again, Behold, people are coming down from the midst of the land, and one girdle cometh by way of the oak of the Seers.
And it came to pass on the next day, the second day of the new moon, that David's place was empty. So Saul asked Jonathan his son, "Why did the son of Jesse not come either yesterday or this day unto the feast?"
So Samuel brought all the tribes of Israel near, and the tribe of Benjamin, was chosen.
therefore took new Delilah ropes, and bound him therewith, and said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. And there were liers in wait abiding in the chamber. And he brake them from off his arms like a web.
David remained in the wilderness, in the strongholds, and in the hill country in the wilderness of Ziph. And Saul sought him continually, but God did not give him into his hand.
But I beseech you the rather to do this, that I may be restored unto you the sooner.
And Saul's fear of David waxed all the greater, and he went on hating him, day by day.
And Samuel spake all these words of Jehovah unto the people that were desiring a king.
And the people numbered themselves, and lo, there is not there a man of the inhabitants of Jabesh-Gilead.
Hereby Abimelech was recompensed by God for the evil that he had done to his father in laying his seventy brethren to death;
And the king said unto her, Be not afraid: for that which sawest thou? And the woman said unto Saul, I saw gods ascending out of the earth.
And the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together to Mizpah, even and the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel: and the children of Israel heard , and were afraid of the Philistines.
Brethren, it is known unto me that I have not come to that knowledge; but one thing I do, and go those things which are past, and reacheth unto the things that are before,
Then the five men that went to spy out the land, went in, and took the graven image and the ephod, and the family gods, and the molten image; and the priest was by the gate with the six hundred armed men.
At that time, when Eli was laid down in his place (now his eyes had begun to grow dim, so that he could not see),
and we have taken ten men of a hundredfold, of all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred of a thousand and a thousand of a myriad, to receive provision for the people, to do, at their coming to Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all the folly which it hath done in Israel.'
And Saul was very angry and this saying was unpleasing unto him; and he said, They have moved David boasteth tens of thousands, and to me for only thousands: what further is there for him but the kingdom?
He saith unto him, Lord, how shall I "O save Israel? Behold, my house is the poorest in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house."
`And thou hast thence, and passed on beyond, and hast come in unto the oak of Tabor, and found thee there have three men going up unto God to Beth-El, one bearing three kids, and one bearing three cakes of bread, and one bearing an alabaster cruse of wine,
Behold, an old man came from his work out of the field at the even. Now the man was from the hill country of Ephraim, and he lived in Gibeah: but the men of the place were Benjamites.
So they passed by Jebus, and went on their journey, and the sun went down upon them as they were by Gabaa, which is in the tribe of Benjamin:
So and more also do God to the enemies of David, if I leave of all that is his by the morning light any male.
For in finding fault with them he saith, "Behold, days come, saith Jehovah, that I will perfect a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah,
Wherefore, my beloved, even as thou hast always obeyed, not only in my presence, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling.
And Saul and Jonathan his son and the people that were with them, waited in Geba in the land of Benjamin: but the camp of the Philistines were in Michmash.
For he did put his life in his hand, and slew the Philistine, and Jehovah wrought a great salvation for all Israel: thou sawest it, and didst rejoice: wherefore then wilt thou have sinned against innocent blood, to slay David without cause?
And David addeth again to ask at Jehovah, and Jehovah answereth him, and saith, `Rise, go down to Keilah, for I give the Philistines into thy hand.'
And the men of the city said unto Jehoash "Bring forth thy son that he may die, for he hath plucked down the altar of Baal, and cut down the Asherah, that was beside it."
And his daughter-in-law, wife of Phinehas, pregnant, about to bear, and she heareth the report of the carrying of the ark of God, that her father-in-law and her husband have died, and she boweth, and beareth, for her pangs have turned upon her.
When he made mention of God's ark, Eli fell from off his throne backward by the side of the gate; and his neck broke, and he died; for he was an old man, and heavy. He had judged Israel forty years.
Then Saul said, "Let them cast the lot between me and my son Jonathan," and Jonathan was chosen.
"Now therefore, if ye have dealt in truth, righteously, in that thou hast made Abimelech king, and if thou hast dealt well with Jerubbaal and his house, and have done to him according to the deserving of his hands
Therefore let the hand that are hang down be exalted, and let the weak knees be made strong,
and the messenger of Jehovah appeareth unto him, and saith unto him, `Jehovah with thee, O mighty one of valour.'
And he gathered unto him the children of Ammon, and Amalek and went and smote Israel, and they took possession of the city of palm-trees.
She lived under Deborah's palm tree between Ramah, and Bethel in the hill country of Ephraim: and the children of Israel came up to her for judgment.
And the man, the master of the house, went out unto them, and said unto them, Nay, my brethren, nay, I pray thee, thou shalt not so wickedly; seeing that this man is come into mine house, do not this folly.
and the elders of Gilead say unto Jephthah, `Therefore, now, we have turned back unto thee; and thou hast gone with us, and fought against the Bene-Ammon, and thou hast been unto us for head -- unto all the inhabitants of Gilead.'
Then Gideon said unto them, I have asked make unto thee; let each man give me the ear-rings he hath taken. (for they had gold, pendants, because they were Ishmaelites.)
So Hannah rose up after they had finished eating and drinketh in Shiloh. Now Eli the priest was sitting upon his throne by the doorpost of Yahweh's temple.
And Saul was yet the more afraid of David: and Saul begat David's enemy continually.
Thou hast made him a little lower than the angels: thou hast crowned him with glory and honor and hast set him over the works of thy hand:
Quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, waxed valiant in battle, turned to flight the hosts of the aliens.
But if ye shall not be able to declare it, ye shall give me thirty shirts and the number of coats. They answer him: Put forth the riddle that we may hear it.
And Abiathar informed David that Saul had slain Jehovah's priests.
"Yahweh, when ye went out of Seir, when ye marched out of the field of Edom, the earth trembled, the shadows also dropped. Yea, the clouds thrown water.
I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that oppressed thee, and drove them out from before thee, and gave you their land.
Thou shalt not regard thy female servant as worthless, but because of the extent of my worries and my provocation I have spoken all of this."
According to all the works that they have done from the day of My bringing them up out of Egypt, even unto this day, when they forsake Me, and serve other gods, -- so they do also unto thee.
When Saul returned from pursuing the Philistines, they told him, "Look, David is in the wilderness of En Gedi."
Then me, came up to Saul to Gibeah, saying, "Doesn't David hide himself with us in the strongholds in the forest, in the hill of Hachilah, which is on the south of the desert?
The men of Israel went forth to battle against Benjamin and the men of Israel set the battle in array against them at Gibeah.
And Gideon went in, and prepared a kid, and unleavened cakes of an ephah of flour: the flesh he put in a basket, and he put the broth in a pot, and brought it out unto him under the oak, and presented it.
And Jonathan speaketh good of David unto Saul his father, and saith unto him, `Let not the king have sinned against his servant, against David, because he hath not sinned against thee, and because his works for thee very good;
minister of the holy places and of the true tabernacle, which Jehovah hath pitched, not man.
And when the cry of the children of Israel, because of Midian, came before Jehovah,
And when the seventh day came, they said unto the wife of thy husband, and Samson: Soothe persuade him to tell thee saith the riddle meaneth. But if thou wilt not redeem it, we will burning by thee, and thy father's house. Hast thou called us to the wedding upon purpose to strip us?
And the God of the peace, that did bring up out of the dead the great shepherd of the sheep -- in the blood of an age-during covenant -- our Lord Jesus,
Then did the horse-hoofs clatter with the coursings, The coursings of their steeds.
As faith the harlot Rahab perished not with them that believed not, when she had received the spies with peace.
The children of Dan went their way; and when Micah saw that they were too strong for him, he turned and departed unto his house.
And all the people also cut down each one his bough, and go after Abimelech and set at the high place, and burning by these the high place with fire, and also all the men of the tower of Shechem die, about a thousand men and women.
Samuel grew, and Yahweh was with him, and let none of his words fall to the ground.
that, my beloved, as ye always obey, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, with fear and trembling your own salvation work out,
Therefore through him let us offer up a sacrifice of thanksgiving continually unto God, that is, the fruit of lips that confess his name.
And Abiathar shewed David that Saul had slain the Lord's priests.
Now there was a man of Benjamin whose name was Cis, the son of Abiel, the son of Seror, the son of Bechorath, the son of Aphia, the son of a man of Jemini, valiant and strong.
and Jesse said unto David his son, Accept, I beseech thee, I pray, for thy brethren, this ephah of parched and these ten loaves, and carry them haste to the camp to thy brethren;
Are they not all ministering spirits, sent to minister for them, that shall receive the inheritance of saved?
When he was come into his house, he took a knife, and cut up his concubine, and divided her, limb by limb, into twelve pieces, and sent her throughout all the borders of Israel.
And the children of Benjamin came forth out of Gibeah, and destroyed down to the ground of the Israelites that day twenty and two thousand men.
And Jonathan said unto David, Come, and let us go forth into the field. And they went out both of them into the field.
Saul was wroth, and this saying displeased him. And he said, "They have ascribed to David ten thousands, and to me they have ascribed only thousands. What can he have more but the kingdom?"
Come, ye rulers of Israel, ye that gave yourselves in the midst of the people: praise Jehovah.
And he humbled himself, and served obedient unto death, even to the crucified.
Then the Philistines went and encamped in Judah, round Lehi.
And Saul disguised himself, and put on other raiment, and he went, and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night: and he said, I pray thee, unto me by the divine familiar spirit, and bring me him up, whom I shall name unto thee.
in that it is written, To-day if ye shall hear his voice, do not harden thy heart, as in the provocation;
But when ye saw that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against thee, ye said unto me, Nay, but a king shall reign over us; when Jehovah thy God was thine anointed.
having the same conflict which hath been showed thee in me, and now hear is in me.
And they were to prove Israel by them, to know whether they would hearken unto the commandments of Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers by Moses.
And it cometh to pass, about ten days, that smiteth Jehovah Nabal, and he dieth,
Then Samuel said unto Saul, "Stop and let me tell thee what Yahweh said unto me last night." And he said unto him, "Speak."
Just before the time of her death, and such attending her said, "Do not fear, for thou hast brought forth a son." But she did not according to his folly, Lest pay any heed.
Then the woman came in the And rose of the day, and fell down at the door of the man's house where her lord was, until it was light.
And David took from her hands her my son: and he said unto her, Return unto thy house in peace; behold, I have heard thy voice, and gathered thy oblation with respect.
The battle followed hard against Saul, and the archers overtook him; and he was sore distressed by the archers.
And Elon the Zebulonite died, and was buried in Ajalon in the land of Zebulun, twelve cities.
After him Abdon, the son of Hillel the Pirathonite judged Israel.
But the host said unto Saul, "Must Jonathan die, that accomplished this great victory in Israel? Behold, of my sorrow! As Yahweh lives, not a hair from his head shall fall to the ground, for he hath linen: with God this day." So the host ransomed Jonathan and he did not die.
And Jehovah saith unto Gideon, `Too the countries, and the people that with thee for My giving Midian into their hand, lest Israel beautify itself against Me, saying, My hand hath given victory unto me;
He said, "Go." He sent her away for two months: and she departed, she and her companions, and mourned her virginity upon the mountains.
And the word of Jehovah is unto Samuel, saying,
And David went up from thence, and dwelt in strong holds of Engaddi.
Then the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Jephthah, and he passed over Gilead, and Manasseh, and passed over Mizpeh, of Gilead, and from Mizpeh, of Gilead he passed over unto the children of Ammon.
And thou shalt go on onward from thence, and shalt come to the oak of Tabor, and there shall meet thee three men going up unto God, to Bethel, one carrying three kids, and another carrying three cakes of bread, and another carrying a flask of wine.
And Samuel bringeth nigh unto the whole tribes of Israel, and the tribe of Benjamin, is captured,
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Thou shalt what seemeth thee good; tarry until thou hast weaned him; Jehovah alone establish his word. So the woman abode, and gave her son suck until she weaned him.
And Saul answered, God do so and more also: for thou shalt surely die, Jonathan.
For they came up with their livestock and their tents. They came in as locusts for multitude. Both they and their camels were without number; and they came into the land to destroy it.
Out of Ephraim he destroyed them into Amalec, and after him out of Benjamin into thy people, O Amalec: Out of Machir there came down princes, and out of Zabulon they that led the host to battle.
Jehovah hath delivered into thy bands the princes of Madian, Oreb and Zeb: what could I have done as to what thou hast done? And when he had said this, their spirit was appeased, whereby they swelled against him.
And David was in a very precarious situation, for the people spoke of stoned him: for the souls of all the people were bitter, each one over his sons and his daughters. But David strengthened himself in Yahweh his God.
Then the Hebrews that had been with the Philistines a long time, and was gone up with them unto their tents, turned and were joined to them that were with Saul and Jonathan.
Then said he unto Jether, his first-born, Arise, Put them to death. But the lad did not bring forth his sword, and one that feared because he was yet a up.
Now I have heard that thou hast shearers. Now while thy shepherds were with us, we did not mistreat them, neither shall any of theirs also came missing, all the days they were in Carmel.
And Elkanah her husband saith unto her, `Hannah, why weepest thou? And why dost thou not eat? and why is thy heart afflicted? am I not better to thee than ten sons?'
And this will we do, if God permit.
Then said all the trees unto the thorn-bush, Come thou, reign over us.
And Saul saw that he was exceeding prudent, and began to beware of him.
Moreover as for me, God forbid that I should have sinned against Jehovah, ceasing to pray for you: but I will teach you good and the right wise:
And Elkanah goeth to Ramath, unto his house, and the youth hath been serving Jehovah, the presence of Eli the priest;
Women received back their dead by resurrection. But others were tortured, not accepting release, that they might gain a better resurrection.
Therefore they sent the ark of God to Ekron. And it came to pass, as the ark of God came to Ekron, that the Ekronites cried out, saying, They have brought about the ark of the God of Israel unto us, to slay us and our people.
that Yahweh shall deliver you into my hand. I will strike thee, and take thy head from off thee. I will give the dead bodies of the host of the Philistines this day unto the birds of the man and to the wild the number of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel,
And if thus I say unto the young man, Lo, the arrows beyond thee, -- go, for Jehovah hath sent thee away;
But *we* are not drawers back to perdition, but of faith to saving soul.
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing; for that thou hast set me in a dry land of the South, give me also springs of water. And Caleb gave her the upper springs and the nether springs.
And Abimelech assaulted the city all that day; and took it, and killed the inhabitants thereof, and demolished it, that he sowed salt therein.
Be not led away with various and sojourners doctrines. For it is fine that the heart be established with grace, not with meats; which have not hath them that walked in them.
Whom hath the king of Israel come out? Whom dost thou pursue? A dead dog? A flea?
And he had thirty sons that rode upon thirty ass colts, and they had thirty Havothjair cities, which are called unto this day, that are in the land of Gilead.
None living man or woman did David snatch back with him to Gath, fearing lest they should declare what was done, and say, Thus saith David did, and thus hath he kept all the time as he hath been a sojourner in the land of the Philistines.
And he said unto me, 'Look, thou shalt conceive and bear a son, so then thou shalt not drink wine nor strong drink, neither eat anything unclean, to the lad shall be a Nazirite of God from born until the day of his death.'"
The men of Ephraim said unto him, "Why hast thou treated us this way, that thou didn't call us when ye went to battle with Midian?" They rebuked him sharply.
Now the name of his firstborn son was Joel: and the name of the second was Abia, judges in Bersabee.
And when Saul inquired of the Lord, Jehovah gave him no answer, by a dream, or the Urim or by the prophets.
And the asses of Kish Saul's father were lost. And Kish said unto Saul his son, Take now one of the servants with thee, and arise, go seek the asses.
And they rise early, and it cometh to pass, at the ascending of the sunrising, that Samuel calleth unto Saul, upon the roof; saying, `Rise, and I send thee away;' and Saul riseth, and they go out, both of them -- he and Samuel, without.
But unto which of the angels said he all the Sit on my right hand, until I make thine enemies thy footstool?
From the heavens they fought: The stars from their highways fought with Sisera.
And as he talked with them, the contentious, the Philistine of Gath, Goliath by name, came out from the Philistines' rows and said the same words, in David's ears.
which we have, as an anchor of the soul, both sure and stedfast, and entering into that within the vail,
And thou shalt go down before me to Gilgal, where I will come unto thee; for the oblation of burnt-offerings, and peace-offerings: wait there seven days until I come to you and show thee what thou must do.
And Samson called to Yahweh and said, "My Lord Jehovah, remember me! Please give me strength this one time, O God, that I can repay with one act of revenge to the Philistines for my eyes."
There was at that time Jephte the Galaadite, a most valiant man and a warrior, the son of a woman that was a harlot, and his father was Galaad.
For the priesthood being translated, it must needs be that a translation also be made of the law.
And the six hundred men appointed with their weapons of war, that were of the children of Dan, stood by the entering of the gate.
Aser also destroyed not the inhabitants of Accho, and of Sidon of Ahalab, and of Achazib, and of Helba, and of Aphec, and of Rohob:
Wherefore the iniquity of the young men was very great before Jehovah; for men abhorred the oblation of Jehovah.
And the kine go straight in the way, in the way to Beth-Shemesh, in one highway they are gone, going and lowing, and have not turned aside right hand nor left; and the princes of the Philistines are pursued them unto the border of Beth-Shemesh.
and build an altar unto Jehovah thy God upon the top of this stronghold according to the manner, and take the second bullock, and offer up a burnt-offering with the wood of the Asherah, that thou shalt cut down.
Of ten days afterward Yahweh struck Nabal, that he died.
Yahweh called Samuel again the third time. He arose and went to Eli, and said, "Here am I, for thou called me." Eli perceived that Yahweh had called the child.
And Saul said unto him: Why hast thou conspired against me, thou, and the son of Isai, and thou hast given him bread and a sword, and hast consulted Jehovah for him, that he should rise up against me, continuing a traitor unto this day.
And they took counsel, and said, Behold there is a yearly solemnity of Jehovah in Silo, which is situate on the north of the city of Bethel, and on the east side of the way, that goeth from Bethel to Sichem, and on the south of the city of Lebona.
But Saul and the people spared Agag, And the best of the sheep, of the cattle, and of the fat calves, and the lambs, and all that was good, and were not willing to utterly destroy them; but all that was vile and refuse, that they destroyed utterly.
And she vowed a vow, and said, O Jehovah of hosts, if thou wilt indeed look upon the affliction of thy handmaid, and remember me, and not forget thy handmaid, but wilt give unto thy handmaid a man child, then I will give him unto Jehovah all the days of his life, and there shall no razor come upon his head.
And be seen in him, not having my righteousness which is of the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith:
Thy daughters he shall take to be singers incense and cooks and bread-makers.
