1 My wo  to me, for I have been As gatherings of summer-fruit, As gleanings of harvest, There is no cluster to eat, The first-ripe fruit desired hath my soul.
2 Perished hath the kind out of the land, And upright among men -- there are none, All of them for blood lie in wait, Each his brother they hunt  a net.
3 On the evil  both hands to do  well, The prince is asking -- also the judge -- for recompence, And the great -- he is speaking the mischief of his soul, And they wrap it up.
4 Their best one  as a brier, The upright one -- than a thorn-hedge, The day of thy watchmen -- Thy visitation -- hath come. Now is their perplexity.
5 Believe not in a friend, trust not in a leader, From her who is lying in thy bosom keep the openings of thy mouth.
6 For a son is dishonouring a father, A daughter hath stood against her mother, A daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law, The enemies of each  the men of his house.
7 And I -- in Jehovah I do watch, I do wait for the God of my salvation, Hear me doth my God.
8 Thou dost not rejoice over me, O mine enemy, When I have fallen, I have risen, When I sit in darkness Jehovah is a light to me.
9 The indignation of Jehovah I do bear, For I have sinned against Him, Till that He doth plead my cause, And hath executed my judgment, He doth bring me forth to the light, I look on His righteousness.
10 And see doth mine enemy, And cover her doth shame, Who saith unto me, `Where  Jehovah thy God?' Mine eyes do look on her, Now she is for a treading-place, As mire of the out-places.
11 The day to build thy walls! That day -- removed is the limit.
12 That day -- even unto thee it doth come in, From Asshur and the cities of the fortress, And from the fortress even unto the river, And from sea to sea, and mount to mount.
13 And the land hath been for a desolation, Because of its inhabitants, Because of the fruit of their doings.
14 Rule Thou Thy people with Thy rod, The flock of Thine inheritance, Dwelling alone  a forest in the midst of Carmel, They enjoy Bashan and Gilead as in days of old.
15 According to the days of thy coming forth out of the land of Egypt, I do shew it wonderful things.
16 See do nations, and they are ashamed of all their might, They lay a hand on the mouth, their ears are deaf.
17 They lick dust as a serpent, as fearful things of earth, They tremble from their enclosures, Of Jehovah our God they are afraid, Yea, they are afraid of Thee.
18 Who  a God like Thee? taking away iniquity, And passing by the transgression of the remnant of His inheritance, He hath not retained for ever His anger, Because He -- He delighteth  kindness.
19 He doth turn back, He pitieth us, He doth subdue our iniquities, And Thou castest into the depths of the sea all their sins.
20 Thou givest truth to Jacob, kindness to Abraham, That thou hast sworn to our fathers, from the days of antiquity!