1 I made a covenant with my eyes, that I would not so much as think upon a virgin.
2 For what part should God from above have in me, and what inheritance the Almighty from on high?
3 Is not destruction to the wicked, and aversion to them that work iniquity?
4 Doth not he consider my ways, and number all my steps?
5 If I have walked in vanity, and my foot hath made haste to deceit:
6 Let him weigh me in a just balance, and let God know my simplicity.
7 If my step hath turned out of the way, and if my heart hath followed my eyes, and if a spot hath cleaved to my hands:
8 Then let me sow and let another eat: and let my offspring be rooted out.
9 If my heart hath been deceived upon a woman, and if I have laid wait at my friend's door:
10 Let my wife be the harlot of another, and let other men lie with her.
11 For this is a heinous crime, and a most grievous iniquity.
12 It is a fire that devoureth even to destruction, and rooteth up all things that spring.
13 If I have despised to abide judgment with my manservant, or my maidservant, when they had any controversy against me:
14 For what shall I do when God shall rise to judge? and when he shall examine, what shall I answer him?
15 Did not he that made me in the womb make him also: and did not one and the same form me in the womb?
16 If I have denied to the poor what they desired, and have made the eyes of the widow wait:
17 If I have eaten my morsel alone, and the fatherless hath not eaten thereof:
18 (For from my infancy mercy grew up with me: and it came out with me from my mother's womb:)
19 If I have despised him that was perishing for want of clothing, and the poor man that had no covering:
20 If his sides have not blessed me, and if he were not warmed with the fleece of my sheep:
21 If I have lifted up my hand against the fatherless, even when I saw myself superior in the gate:
22 Let my shoulder fall from its joint, and let my arm with its bones be broken.
23 For I have always feared God as waves swelling over me, and his weight I was not able to bear.
24 If I have thought gold my strength, and have said to fine gold: My confidence:
25 If I have rejoiced over my great riches, and because my hand had gotten much.
26 If I beheld the sun when it shined, and the moon going in brightness:
27 And my heart in secret hath rejoiced, and I have kissed my hand with my mouth:
28 Which is a very great iniquity, and a denial against the most high God.
29 If I have been glad at the downfall of him that hated me, and have rejoiced that evil had found him.
30 For I have not given my mouth to sin, by wishing a curse to his soul.
31 If the men of my tabernacle have not said: Who will give us of his flesh that we may be filled?
32 The stranger did not stay without, my door was open to the traveller.
33 If as a man I have hid my sin, and have concealed my iniquity in my bosom.
34 If I have been afraid at a very great multitude, and the contempt of kinsmen hath terrified me: and I have not rather held my peace, and not gone out of the door.
35 Who would grant me a hearer, that the Almighty may hear my desire; and that he himself that judgeth would write a book,
36 That I may carry it on my shoulder, and put it about me as a crown?
37 At every step of mine I would pronounce it, and offer it as to a prince.
38 If my land cry against me, and with it the furrows thereof mourn:
39 If I have eaten the fruits thereof without money, and have afflicted the soul of the tillers thereof:
40 Let thistles grow up to me instead of wheat, and thorns instead of barley.