1 Be ye therefore followers of God, as most dear children;
2 And walk in love, as Christ also hath loved us, and hath delivered himself for us, an oblation and a sacrifice to God for an odour of sweetness.
3 But fornication, and all uncleanness, or covetousness, let it not so much as be named among you, as becometh saints:
4 Or obscenity, or foolish talking, or scurrility, which is to no purpose; but rather giving of thanks.
5 For know you this and understand, that no fornicator, or unclean, or covetous person (which is a serving of idols), hath inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God.
6 Let no man deceive you with vain words. For because of these things cometh the anger of God upon the children of unbelief.
7 Be ye not therefore partakers with them.
8 For you were heretofore darkness, but now light in the Lord. Walk then as children of the light.
9 For the fruit of the light is in all goodness, and justice, and truth;
10 Proving what is well pleasing to God:
11 And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them.
12 For the things that are done by them in secret, it is a shame even to speak of.
13 But all things that are reproved, are made manifest by the light; for all that is made manifest is light.
14 Wherefore he saith: Rise thou that sleepest, and arise from the dead: and Christ shall enlighten thee.
15 See therefore, brethren, how you walk circumspectly: not as unwise,
16 But as wise: redeeming the time, because the days are evil.
17 Wherefore become not unwise, but understanding what is the will of God.
18 And be not drunk with wine, wherein is luxury; but be ye filled with the holy Spirit,
19 Speaking to yourselves in psalms, and hymns, and spiritual canticles, singing and making melody in your hearts to the Lord;
20 Giving thanks always for all things, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, to God and the Father:
21 Being subject one to another, in the fear of Christ.
22 Let women be subject to their husbands, as to the Lord:
23 Because the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ is the head of the church. He is the saviour of his body.
24 Therefore as the church is subject to Christ, so also let the wives be to their husbands in all things.
25 Husbands, love your wives, as Christ also loved the church, and delivered himself up for it:
26 That he might sanctify it, cleansing it by the laver of water in the word of life:
27 That he might present it to himself a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle, or any such thing; but that it should be holy, and without blemish.
28 So also ought men to love their wives as their own bodies. He that loveth his wife, loveth himself.
29 For no man ever hated his own flesh; but nourisheth and cherisheth it, as also Christ doth the church:
30 Because we are members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones.
31 For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife, and they shall be two in one flesh.
32 This is a great sacrament; but I speak in Christ and in the church.
33 Nevertheless let every one of you in particular love his wife as himself: and let the wife fear her husband.