1 After the death of Moses the servant of Yahweh, Yahweh said to Joshua son of Nun, the assistant of Moses, saying, 
2 "My servant Moses is dead. Get up and cross the Jordan, you and all this people, into the land that I am giving to them, to the Israelites. 
3 Every place that the soles of your feet will tread, I have given it to you, as I promised to Moses. 
4 From the wilderness and the Lebanon, up to the great river, the river Euphrates, all of the land of the Hittites, and up to the great sea in the west, will be your territory. 
5 No one will stand before you all the days of your life. Just as I was with Moses, so will I be with you; I will not fail you, and I will not forsake you. 
6 Be strong and courageous, for you will give the people this land as an inheritance that I swore to their ancestors to give them. 
7 Only be strong and very courageous to observe diligently the whole law that Moses my servant commanded you. Do not turn aside from it, to the right or left, so that you may succeed wherever you go. 
8 The scroll of this law will not depart from your mouth; you will meditate on it day and night so that you may observe diligently all that is written in it. For then you will succeed in your ways and prosper. 
9 Did I not command you? Be strong and courageous! Do not fear or be dismayed, for Yahweh your God is with you wherever you go." 
10 Then Joshua commanded the officers of the people, saying, 
11 "Pass through the midst of the camp and command the people: 'Prepare your provisions; in three days you are to cross the Jordan to go possess the land that Yahweh your God is giving you to possess.'"
12 To the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh Joshua said, 
13 "Remember the word that Moses Yahweh's servant commanded you, saying, 'Yahweh your God is giving rest to you, and he is giving you this land.' 
14 Your wives, your little children, and your livestock, they will remain in the land that Moses gave to you beyond the Jordan. All of the best fighting men will cross armed in front of your families; they will help you 
15 until Yahweh gives rest to your families as well as to you. They will take possession of the land that Yahweh your God is giving to them. Then you will return to your own land and take possession of it, the land that Moses the servant of Yahweh gave you beyond the Jordan to the east." 
16 And they answered Joshua, saying, "All that you have commanded us we will do, and wherever you will send us we will go. 
17 Just as we obeyed Moses, so will we obey you. Only may Yahweh your God be with you, as he was with Moses. 
18 Whoever rebels against your orders and does not obey your words according to what you commanded us will be put to death. Only be strong and courageous."