1 The second allotment fell for Simeon, for the tribe of the descendants of Simeon, according to their families. And their inheritance was in the midst of the inheritance of the descendants of Judah. 
2 And they had as their inheritance Beersheba, Sheba, Moladah, 
3 Hazar Shual, Balah, Ezem, 
4 Eltolad, Bethul, Hormah, 
5 Ziklag, Beth Marcaboth, Hazar Susah, 
6 Beth Lebaoth, and Sharuhen; thirteen cities and their villages. 
7 Ain, Rimmon, Ether, and Ashan; four cities and their villages, 
8 and all the villages that were around these towns up to Baalat-Beor, Ramath of the Negev. This was the inheritance of the tribe of the descendants of Simeon according to their families. 
9 Part of the portion allotted to the descendants of Judah became the inheritance of the descendants of Simeon because the portion for the descendants of Judah was too large for them, so the descendants of Simeon inherited from their inheritance.
10 The third allotment came up for the descendants of Zebulun according to their families. The border of their inheritance went up to Sarid. 
11 Their border goes up to the west, to Maralah; it touches Dabbesheth, then the wadi that is opposite Jokneam. 
12 It turns from Sarid to the east to the sunrise, to the border of Kislot-Tabor; it continues to Daberath and goes up to Japhia. 
13 From there it passes along to the east toward the sunrise, to Gath Hepher and to Eth Kazin, and continuing to Rimmon, it turns to Neah; 
14 it changes direction from the north of Hannathon, and it ends at the valley of Yiptah-El; 
15 Kattath, Nahalal, Shimron, Idalah, and Bethlehem; twelve cities and their villages. 
16 This is the inheritance of the descendants of Zebulun according to their families, these cities and their villages.
17 The fourth allotment fell for Issachar, for the descendants of Issachar, according to their families. 
18 Their border went to Jezreel, Chesulloth, Shunem, 
19 Hapharaim, Shion, Anaharath, 
20 Rabbith, Kishion, Ebez, 
21 Remeth, En Gannim, En Haddah, and Beth Pazzez; 
22 and the border touches Tabor, Shahazumah, and Beth Shemesh. Its border ends at the Jordan; sixteen cities and their villages. 
23 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the descendants of Issachar according to their families, the cities and their villages.
24 The fifth allotment fell for the tribe of the descendants of Asher according to their families. 
25 Their border was Helkath, Hali, Beten, Acshaph, 
26 Allamelech, Amad, and Mishal; it touches Carmel to the west, and Shihor-Libnat. 
27 Then it turns eastward to Beth-dagon and touches Zebulun and the valley of Yiptah-El to the north to Beth Emeck and Neiel; it continues to Cabul from the north, 
28 and Ebron, Rehob, Hammon, and Kanah up to Great Sidon; 
29 then the border turns to Ramah, and up to the fortified city of Tyre, where the border turns to Hosah; it ends at the sea, from Hebel to Aczib. 
30 Included were Ummah, Aphek, and Rehob; twenty-two cities and their villages. 
31 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the descendants of Asher according to their families, these cities and their villages.
32 The sixth allotment fell for the children of Naphtali, for the children of Naphtali according to their families. 
33 Their border was from Heleph, from the oak in Zaanannim, Adami Nekeb, Jabneel, up to Lakkum; it ends at the Jordan; 
34 then the border turns to the west, to Aznoth Tabor, and continues from there to Hukok, and it touches Zebulun on the south, Asher on the west, and Judah on the east at the Jordan. 
35 The fortified cities are Ziddim, Zer, Hammath, Rakkath, Kinnereth, 
36 Adamah, Ramah, Hazor, 
37 Kedesh, Edrei, En Hazor, 
38 Yiron, Migdal El, Horem, Beth-anath, Beth Shemesh; nineteen cities and their villages. 
39 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Naphtali according to their families, the cities and their villages.
40 The seventh lot fell for the tribe of the descendants of Dan according to their families. 
41 The border of their inheritance was Zorah, Eshtaol, Ir Shemesh, 
42 Shaalabbin, Aijalon, Ithlah, 
43 Elon, Timnah, Ekron, 
44 Eltekeh, Gibbethon, Baalath, 
45 Jehud, Bene Berak, Gath Rimmon, 
46 Me Jarkon, Rakkon, with the border opposite Joppa. 
47 The border of the descendants of Dan continued beyond them, because the descendants of Dan went up and fought with Lesham, and they captured and struck it with the edge of the sword, and they took possession of it and settled in it; and they called Leshem Dan, after the name of Dan their ancestor. 
48 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the descendants of Dan according to their families, these cities and their villages.
49 They finished assigning the land according to its borders, and the Israelites gave an inheritance from among them to Joshua son of Nun. 
50 According to the commandment of Yahweh, they gave him the city that he requested, Timnath Serah, in the hill country of Ephraim, and he rebuilt the city and settled in it. 
51 These are the inheritances that Eleazar the priest, Joshua son of Nun, and the heads of the families of the tribes, distributed by allotment to the Israelites, at Shiloh before Yahweh at the entrance of the tent of meeting. And they finished dividing the land.