1 Then Job answered and said,
2 I have heard many such things: Miserable comforters are ye all.
3 Shall vain words have an end? Or what provoketh thee that thou answerest?
4 I also could speak as ye do; If your soul were in my soul's stead, I could join words together against you, And shake my head at you.
5 But I would strengthen you with my mouth, And the solace of my lips would assuage your grief.
6 Though I speak, my grief is not assuaged; And though I forbear, what am I eased?
7 But now he hath made me weary: Thou hast made desolate all my company.
8 And thou hast laid fast hold on me, which is a witness against me: And my leanness riseth up against me, It testifieth to my face.
9 He hath torn me in his wrath, and persecuted me; He hath gnashed upon me with his teeth: Mine adversary sharpeneth his eyes upon me.
10 They have gaped upon me with their mouth; They have smitten me upon the cheek reproachfully: They gather themselves together against me.
11 God delivereth me to the ungodly, And casteth me into the hands of the wicked.
12 I was at ease, and he brake me asunder; Yea, he hath taken me by the neck, and dashed me to pieces: He hath also set me up for his mark.
13 His archers compass me round about; He cleaveth my reins asunder, and doth not spare; He poureth out my gall upon the ground.
14 He breaketh me with breach upon breach; He runneth upon me like a giant.
15 I have sewed sackcloth upon my skin, And have laid my horn in the dust.
16 My face is red with weeping, And on my eyelids is the shadow of death;
17 Although there is no violence in my hands, And my prayer is pure.
18 O earth, cover not thou my blood, And let my cry have no resting-place.
19 Even now, behold, my witness is in heaven, And he that voucheth for me is on high.
20 My friends scoff at me: But mine eye poureth out tears unto God,
21 That he would maintain the right of a man with God, And of a son of man with his neighbor!
22 For when a few years are come, I shall go the way whence I shall not return.