1 So these three men ceased to answer Job, because he was righteous in his own eyes. 
2 Then was kindled the wrath of Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite, of the family of Ram: against Job was his wrath kindled, because he justified himself rather than God. 
3 Also against his three friends was his wrath kindled, because they had found no answer, and yet had condemned Job. 
4 Now Elihu had waited to speak unto Job, because they were elder than he. 
5 And when Elihu saw that there was no answer in the mouth of these three men, his wrath was kindled.
6 And Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite answered and said, I am young, and ye are very old; Wherefore I held back, and durst not show you mine opinion.
7 I said, Days should speak, And multitude of years should teach wisdom.
8 But there is a spirit in man, And the breath of the Almighty giveth them understanding.
9 It is not the great that are wise, Nor the aged that understand justice.
10 Therefore I said, Hearken to me; I also will show mine opinion.
11 Behold, I waited for your words, I listened for your reasonings, Whilst ye searched out what to say.
12 Yea, I attended unto you, And, behold, there was none that convinced Job, Or that answered his words, among you.
13 Beware lest ye say, We have found wisdom; God may vanquish him, not man:
14 For he hath not directed his words against me; Neither will I answer him with your speeches.
15 They are amazed, they answer no more: They have not a word to say.
16 And shall I wait, because they speak not, Because they stand still, and answer no more?
17 I also will answer my part, I also will show mine opinion.
18 For I am full of words; The spirit within me constraineth me.
19 Behold, my breast is as wine which hath no vent; Like new wine-skins it is ready to burst.
20 I will speak, that I may be refreshed; I will open my lips and answer.
21 Let me not, I pray you, respect any man's person; Neither will I give flattering titles unto any man.
22 For I know not to give flattering titles; Else would my Maker soon take me away.