1 Ask of Jehovah rain in the time of the latter rain; Jehovah will make lightnings, and he will give them showers of rain, to every one grass in the field.
2 For the teraphim have spoken vanity, and the diviners have seen a lie, and have told false dreams: they comfort in vain. Therefore they have gone away as a flock, they are in distress, because there is no shepherd.
3 Mine anger is kindled against the shepherds, and I will punish the he-goats; for Jehovah of hosts visiteth his flock, the house of Judah, and maketh them as his majestic horse in the battle.
4 From him shall come forth the corner-stone, from him the nail, from him the battle bow, from him every exactor together.
5 And they shall be as mighty men, treading down the mire of the streets in the battle; and they shall fight, for Jehovah is with them, and the riders on horses shall be put to shame.
6 And I will strengthen the house of Judah, and I will save the house of Joseph, and I will bring them back again; for I will have mercy upon them; and they shall be as though I had not cast them off: for I am Jehovah their God, and I will answer them.
7 And [they of] Ephraim shall be like a mighty man, and their hearts shall rejoice as through wine; and their children shall see , and rejoice; their heart shall be joyful in Jehovah.
8 I will hiss for them, and gather them; for I have redeemed them: and they shall multiply as they used to multiply.
9 And I will sow them among the peoples, and they shall remember me in far countries; and they shall live with their children and return.
10 And I will bring them again out of the land of Egypt, and gather them out of Assyria; and I will bring them into the land of Gilead and Lebanon; and  shall not be found for them.
11 And he shall pass through the sea of affliction, and shall smite the billows in the sea, and all the depths of the Nile shall dry up; and the pride of Assyria shall be brought down, and the sceptre of Egypt shall depart away.
12 And I will strengthen them in Jehovah; and they shall walk in his name, saith Jehovah.