1 The burden of the word of Jehovah, in the land of Hadrach, and  Damascus shall it rest; (for Jehovah hath an eye upon men, and upon all the tribes of Israel;)
2 and also  Hamath  bordereth thereon; on Tyre and Zidon, though she be very wise.
3 And Tyre hath built herself a stronghold, and hath heaped up silver as the dust, and fine gold as the mire of the streets.
4 Behold, the Lord will take possession of her, and he will smite her power in the sea; and she shall be devoured with fire.
5 Ashkelon shall see , and fear; Gazah also, and she shall be greatly pained; Ekron also, for her expectation shall be put to shame: and the king shall perish from Gazah, and Ashkelon shall not be inhabited.
6 And a bastard shall dwell in Ashdod, and I will cut off the pride of the Philistines;
7 and I will take away his blood out of his mouth, and his abominations from between his teeth; but he that remaineth, he also shall belong to our God, and shall be as a leader in Judah, and Ekron as a Jebusite.
8 And I will encamp about my house because of the army, because of those that pass by and that return; and the exactor shall not pass through them any more: for now have I seen  with mine eyes.
9 Rejoice greatly, daughter of Zion; shout, daughter of Jerusalem! Behold, thy King cometh to thee: he is just, and having salvation; lowly and rIding upon an ass, even upon a colt the foal of an ass.
10 And I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim, and the horse from Jerusalem; and the battle-bow shall be cut off. And he shall speak peace unto the nations; and his dominion shall be from sea to sea, and from the river to the ends of the earth.
11 As for thee also, by the blood of thy covenant, I will send forth thy prisoners out of the pit wherein is no water.
12 Turn again to the stronghold, prisoners of hope! even to-day do I declare I will render double unto thee.
13 For I have bent Judah for me, I have filled the bow with Ephraim; and I will raise up thy sons, O Zion, against thy sons, O Greece, and make thee like the sword of a mighty man.
14 And Jehovah shall be seen over them, and his arrow shall go forth as the lightning; and the Lord Jehovah will blow the trumpet, and will march with whirlwinds of the south.
15 Jehovah of hosts will defend them; and they shall devour, and shall tread down the sling-stones; and they shall drink,  make a noise as from wine; and they shall be filled like a bowl, like the corners of the altar.
16 And Jehovah their God shall save them in that day as the flock of his people; for [they shall be as] the stones of a crown, lifted up upon his land.
17 For how great is his goodness, and how great is his beauty! Corn shall make the young men flourish, and new wine the maidens.