1 And the word of Yahweh of hosts came, saying, 
2 "Thus says Yahweh of hosts: 'I am exceedingly jealous for Zion; I am jealous for it with great wrath.' 
3 Thus says Yahweh: 'I have returned to Zion, and I will dwell in the midst of Jerusalem; and Jerusalem will be called the faithful city, and the mountain of Yahweh of hosts will be called the holy mountain.' 
4 Thus says Yahweh of hosts: 'Old men and old women shall again sit in the public squares of Jerusalem, each with staff in hand because of great age. 
5 And the public squares of the city will be filled with boys and girls playing in its public squares.' 
6 Thus says Yahweh of hosts: 'Even if it seems impossible to the remnant of this people in those days, should it also seem impossible to me?' declares Yahweh of hosts. 
7 Thus says Yahweh of hosts: 'Look! I am going to save my people from the land of the east, and from the land of the west, 
8 and I will bring them and they will dwell in the midst of Jerusalem. They will be my people and I will be their God in faithfulness and in righteousness.'
9 "Thus says Yahweh of hosts: 'Let your hands be strong, you who are hearing in these days these words from the mouth of the prophets who were present on the day the foundation was laid for the rebuilding of the temple, the house of Yahweh of hosts. 
10 For before those days there was no wage for people or for animals, and there was no safety from the enemy for those who went out or those who came in, and I sent each person against one another. 
11 But now I will not deal with the remnant of this people as in the former days,' declares Yahweh of hosts. 
12 'For there will be a sowing of peace; the vine will give its fruit, and the soil will give its produce, and the heavens will give their dew. And I will cause the remnant of this people to inherit all these things. 
13 And then, just as you were a curse among the nations, O house of Judah and house of Israel, so will I save you, and you will be a blessing. You must not be afraid; let your hands be strong!'"
14 For thus says Yahweh of hosts: "Just as I planned to bring disaster on you when your ancestors provoked me to anger," says Yahweh of hosts, "and I did not regret it, 
15 so again I have planned in these days to do good to Jerusalem and the house of Judah. Do not be afraid! 
16 These are the things that you must do: speak truth, each of you, with his neighbor; practice trustworthy judgment and peace in your gates. 
17 Do not devise evil in your hearts against your neighbor, and do not love a false oath, because all these are things I hate," declares Yahweh.
18 And the word of Yahweh of hosts came to me, saying 
19 "Thus says Yahweh of hosts: 'The fast of the fourth month, the fifth month, the seventh month, and the tenth month will be for the house of Judah jubilation and joy and merry festivals; therefore love truth and peace.' 
20 Thus says Yahweh of hosts: 'It will happen again that nations and the inhabitants of many cities will come. 
21 And the inhabitants of one city will go to another city, saying, "Let us go immediately to entreat the favor of Yahweh, to seek Yahweh of hosts—I also will go!" 
22 And many peoples and powerful nations will come to seek Yahweh of hosts in Jerusalem, and to entreat the favor of Yahweh.' 
23 Thus says Yahweh of hosts: 'In those days ten men from all the nations of every language will take hold of the hem of a Judean man, saying, "Let us go with you, for we have heard that God is with you!"'"