1 And he shewed me a river of water of life, bright as crystal, going out of the throne of God and of the Lamb.
2 In the midst of its street, and of the river, on this side and on that side,  tree of life, producing twelve fruits, in each month yielding its fruit; and the leaves of the tree for healing of the nations.
3 And no curse shall be any more; and the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it; and his servants shall serve him,
4 and they shall see his face; and his name  on their foreheads.
5 And night shall not be any more, and no need of a lamp, and light of  sun; for  Lord God shall shine upon them, and they shall reign to the ages of ages.
6 And he said to me, These words  faithful and true; and  Lord God of the spirits of the prophets has sent his angel to shew to his bondmen the things which must soon come to pass.
7 And behold, I come quickly. Blessed  he who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book.
8 And I, John,  he who heard and saw these things. And when I heard and saw, I fell down to do homage before the feet of the angel who shewed me these things.
9 And he says to me, See [thou do it] not. I am thy fellow-bondman, and [the fellow-bondman] of thy brethren the prophets, and of those who keep the words of this book. Do homage to God.
10 And he says to me, Seal not the words of the prophecy of this book. The time is near.
11 Let him that does unrighteously do unrighteously still; and let the filthy make himself filthy still; and let him that is righteous practise righteousness still; and he that is holy, let him be sanctified still.
12 Behold, I come quickly, and my reward with me, to render to every one as his work shall be.
13 *I*  the Alpha and the Omega,  first and  last, the beginning and the end.
14 Blessed  they that wash their robes, that they may have right to the tree of life, and that they should go in by the gates into the city.
15 Without  the dogs, and the sorcerers, and the fornicators, and the murderers, and the idolaters, and every one that loves and makes a lie.