1 And after this I saw four angels standing upon the four corners of the earth, holding fast the four winds of the earth, that no wind might blow upon the earth, nor upon the sea, nor upon any tree.
2 And I saw another angel ascending from  sunrising, having  seal of  living God; and he cried with a loud voice to the four angels to whom it had been given to hurt the earth and the sea,
3 saying, Hurt not the earth, nor the sea, nor the trees, until we shall have sealed the bondmen of our God upon their foreheads.
4 And I heard the number of the sealed, a hundred  forty-four thousand, sealed out of every tribe of  sons of Israel:
5 out of  tribe of Juda, twelve thousand sealed; out of  tribe of Reuben, twelve thousand; out of  tribe of Gad, twelve thousand;
6 out of  tribe of Aser, twelve thousand; out of  tribe of Nepthalim, twelve thousand; out of  tribe of Manasseh, twelve thousand;
7 out of  tribe of Simeon, twelve thousand; out of  tribe of Levi, twelve thousand; out of  tribe of Issachar, twelve thousand;
8 out of  tribe of Zabulun, twelve thousand; out of  tribe of Joseph, twelve thousand; out of  tribe of Benjamin, twelve thousand sealed.
9 After these things I saw, and lo, a great crowd, which no one could number, out of every nation and tribes and peoples and tongues, standing before the throne, and before the Lamb, clothed with white robes, and palm branches in their hands.
10 And they cry with a loud voice, saying, Salvation to our God who sits upon the throne, and to the Lamb.
11 And all the angels stood around the throne, and the elders, and the four living creatures, and fell before the throne upon their faces, and worshipped God,
12 saying, Amen: Blessing, and glory, and wisdom, and thanksgiving, and honour, and power, and strength, to our God, to the ages of ages. Amen.
13 And one of the elders answered, saying to me, These who are clothed with white robes, who are they, and whence came they?
14 And I said to him, My lord, *thou* knowest. And he said to me, These are they who come out of the great tribulation, and have washed their robes, and have made them white in the blood of the Lamb.
15 Therefore are they before the throne of God, and serve him day and night in his temple, and he that sits upon the throne shall spread his tabernacle over them.
16 They shall not hunger any more, neither shall they thirst any more, nor shall the sun at all fall on them, nor any burning heat;
17 because the Lamb which is in the midst of the throne shall shepherd them, and shall lead them to fountains of waters of life, and God shall wipe away every tear from their eyes.