1 And I heard a great voice out of the temple, saying to the seven angels, Go and pour out the seven bowls of the fury of God upon the earth.
2 And the first went and poured out his bowl on the earth; and there came an evil and grievous sore upon the men that had the mark of the beast, and those who worshipped its image.
3 And the second poured out his bowl on the sea; and it became blood, as of a dead man; and every living soul died in the sea.
4 And the third poured out his bowl on the rivers, and  the fountains of waters; and they became blood.
5 And I heard the angel of the waters saying, Thou art righteous, who art and wast, the holy one, that thou hast judged so;
6 for they have poured out the blood of saints and prophets, and thou hast given them blood to drink; they are worthy.
7 And I heard the altar saying, Yea, Lord God Almighty, true and righteous  thy judgments.
8 And the fourth poured out his bowl on the sun; and it was given to it to burn men with fire.
9 And the men were burnt with great heat, and blasphemed the name of God, who had authority over these plagues, and did not repent to give him glory.
10 And the fifth poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast; and its kingdom became darkened; and they gnawed their tongues with distress,
11 and blasphemed the God of the heaven for their distresses and their sores, and did not repent of their works.
12 And the sixth poured out his bowl on the great river Euphrates; and its water was dried up, that the way of the kings from the rising of the sun might be prepared.
13 And I saw out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet, three unclean spirits, as frogs;
14 for they are  spirits of demons, doing signs; which go out to the kings of the whole habitable world to gather them together to the war of  great day of God the Almighty.
15 (Behold, I come as a thief. Blessed  he that watches and keeps his garments, that he may not walk naked, and that they [may not] see his shame.)
16 And he gathered them together to the place called in Hebrew, Armagedon.
17 And the seventh poured out his bowl on the air; and there came out a great voice from the temple of the heaven, from the throne, saying, It is done.
18 And there were lightnings, and voices, and thunders; and there was a great earthquake, such as was not since men were upon the earth, such an earthquake, so great.
19 And the great city was  into three parts; and the cities of the nations fell: and great Babylon was remembered before God to give her the cup of the wine of the fury of his wrath.
20 And every island fled, and mountains were not found;
21 and a great hail, as of a talent weight, comes down out of the heaven upon men; and men blasphemed God because of the plague of hail, for the plague of it is exceeding great.