1 And when it opened the seventh seal, there was silence in the heaven about half an hour.
2 And I saw the seven angels who stand before God, and seven trumpets were given to them.
3 And another angel came and stood at the altar, having a golden censer; and much incense was given to him, that he might give  to the prayers of all saints at the golden altar which  before the throne.
4 And the smoke of the incense went up with the prayers of the saints, out of the hand of the angel before God.
5 And the angel took the censer, and filled it from the fire of the altar, and cast  on the earth: and there were voices, and thunders and lightnings, and an earthquake.
6 And the seven angels who had the seven trumpets prepared themselves that they might sound with  trumpets.
7 And the first sounded  trumpet: and there was hail and fire, mingled with blood, and they were cast upon the earth; and the third part of the earth was burnt up, and the third part of the trees was burnt up, and all green grass was burnt up.
8 And the second angel sounded  trumpet: and as a great mountain burning with fire was cast into the sea, and the third part of the sea became blood;
9 and the third part of the creatures which were in the sea which had life died; and the third part of the ships were destroyed.
10 And the third angel sounded  trumpet: and there fell out of the heaven a great star, burning as a torch, and it fell upon the third part of the rivers, and upon the fountains of waters.
11 And the name of the star is called Wormwood; and the third part of the waters became wormwood, and many of the men died of the waters because they were made bitter.
12 And the fourth angel sounded  trumpet: and the third part of the sun was smitten, and the third part of the moon, and the third part of the stars; so that the third part of them should be darkened, and that the day should not appear  the third part of it, and the night the same.
13 And I saw, and I heard an eagle flying in mid-heaven, saying with a loud voice, Woe, woe, woe, to them that dwell upon the earth, for the remaining voices of the trumpet of the three angels who are about to sound.