1 And I saw an angel descending from the heaven, having the key of the abyss, and a great chain in his hand.
2 And he laid hold of the dragon, the ancient serpent who is  devil and Satan, and bound him a thousand years,
3 and cast him into the abyss, and shut  and sealed  over him, that he should not any more deceive the nations until the thousand years were completed; after these things he must be loosed for a little time.
4 And I saw thrones; and they sat upon them, and judgment was given to them; and the souls of those beheaded on account of the testimony of Jesus, and on account of the word of God; and those who had not done homage to the beast nor to his image, and had not received the mark on their forehead and hand; and they lived and reigned with the Christ a thousand years:
5 the rest of the dead did not live till the thousand years had been completed. This  the first resurrection.
6 Blessed and holy he who has part in the first resurrection: over these the second death has no power; but they shall be priests of God and of the Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years.
7 And when the thousand years have been completed, Satan shall be loosed from his prison,
8 and shall go out to deceive the nations which  in the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them together to the war, whose number  as the sand of the sea.
9 And they went up on the breadth of the earth, and surrounded the camp of the saints and the beloved city: and fire came down [from God] out of the heaven and devoured them.
10 And the devil who deceived them was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone, where  both the beast and the false prophet; and they shall be tormented day and night for the ages of ages.
11 And I saw a great white throne, and him that sat on it, from whose face the earth and the heaven fled, and place was not found for them.
12 And I saw the dead, great and small, standing before the throne, and books were opened; and another book was opened, which is  of life. And the dead were judged out of the things written in the books according to their works.
13 And the sea gave up the dead which  in it, and death and hades gave up the dead which  in them; and they were judged each according to their works:
14 and death and hades were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death,  the lake of fire.
15 And if any one was not found written in the book of life, he was cast into the lake of fire.