1 And I saw a new heaven and a new earth; for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea exists no more.
2 And I saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down out of the heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.
3 And I heard a loud voice out of the heaven, saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God  with men, and he shall tabernacle with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them, their God.
4 And he shall wipe away every tear from their eyes; and death shall not exist any more, nor grief, nor cry, nor distress shall exist any more, for the former things have passed away.
5 And he that sat on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he says [to me], Write, for these words are true and faithful.
6 And he said to me, It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. I will give to him that thirsts of the fountain of the water of life freely.
7 He that overcomes shall inherit these things, and I will be to him God, and he shall be to me son.
8 But to the fearful and unbelieving, [and sinners], and those who make themselves abominable, and murderers, and fornicators, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all liars, their part  in the lake which burns with fire and brimstone; which is the second death.
9 And there came one of the seven angels which had had the seven bowls full of the seven last plagues, and spoke with me, saying, Come here, I will shew thee the bride, the Lamb's wife.
10 And he carried me away in  Spirit, [and set me] on a great and high mountain, and shewed me the holy city, Jerusalem, coming down out of the heaven from God,
11 having the glory of God. Her shining  like a most precious stone, as a crystal-like jasper stone;
12 having a great and high wall; having twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and names inscribed, which are those of the twelve tribes of  sons of Israel.
13 On  east three gates; and on  north three gates; and on  south three gates; and on  west three gates.
14 And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and on them twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
15 And he that spoke with me had a golden reed  a measure, that he might measure the city, and its gates, and its wall.
16 And the city lies four-square, and its length  as much as the breadth. And he measured the city with the reed—twelve thousand stadia: the length and the breadth and height of it are equal.
17 And he measured its wall, a hundred  forty-four cubits,  man's measure, that is,  angel's.
18 And the building of its wall  jasper; and the city pure gold, like pure glass:
19 the foundations of the wall of the city  adorned with every precious stone: the first foundation, jasper; the second, sapphire; the third, chalcedony; the fourth, emerald;
20 the fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, sardius; the seventh, chrysolite; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, topaz; the tenth, chrysoprasus; the eleventh, jacinth; the twelfth, amethyst.
21 And the twelve gates, twelve pearls; each one of the gates, respectively, was of one pearl; and the street of the city pure gold, as transparent glass.
22 And I saw no temple in it; for the Lord God Almighty is its temple, and the Lamb.
23 And the city has no need of the sun nor of the moon, that they should shine for it; for the glory of God has enlightened it, and the lamp thereof  the Lamb.
24 And the nations shall walk by its light; and the kings of the earth bring their glory to it.
25 And its gates shall not be shut at all by day, for night shall not be there.
26 And they shall bring the glory and the honour of the nations to it.
27 And nothing common, nor that maketh an abomination and a lie, shall at all enter into it; but those only who  written in the book of life of the Lamb.