1 And I saw on the right hand of him that sat upon the throne a book, written within and on the back, sealed with seven seals.
2 And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who  worthy to open the book, and to break its seals?
3 And no one was able in the heaven, or upon the earth, or underneath the earth, to open the book, or to regard it.
4 And *I* wept much because no one had been found worthy to open the book nor to regard it.
5 And one of the elders says to me, Do not weep. Behold, the lion which  of the tribe of Juda, the root of David, has overcome [so as] to open the book, and its seven seals.
6 And I saw in the midst of the throne and of the four living creatures, and in the midst of the elders, a Lamb standing, as slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God [which are] sent into all the earth:
7 and it came and took  out of the right hand of him that sat upon the throne.
8 And when it took the book, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell before the Lamb, having each a harp and golden bowls full of incenses, which are the prayers of the saints.
9 And they sing a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take the book, and to open its seals; because thou hast been slain, and hast redeemed to God, by thy blood, out of every tribe, and tongue, and people, and nation,
10 and made them to our God kings and priests; and they shall reign over the earth.
11 And I saw, and I heard  voice of many angels around the throne and the living creatures and the elders; and their number was ten thousands of ten thousands and thousands of thousands;
12 saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb that has been slain, to receive power, and riches, and wisdom, and strength, and honour, and glory, and blessing.
13 And every creature which is in the heaven and upon the earth and under the earth, and [those that are] upon the sea, and all things in them, heard I saying, To him that sits upon the throne, and to the Lamb, blessing, and honour, and glory, and might, to the ages of ages.
14 And the four living creatures said, Amen; and the elders fell down and did homage.