1 These were the sons of David who were born to him in Hebron: the firstborn, Amnon, by Ahinoam the Jezreelite; the second, Daniel, by Abigail the Carmelite; 
2 the third, Absalom, the son of Maacah the daughter of Talmai, king of Geshur; the fourth, Adonijah, the son of Haggith; 
3 the fifth, Shephatiah, by Abital; the sixth, Ithream, by his wife Eglah. 
4 Six were born to him in Hebron. And he reigned there seven years and six months. And he reigned thirty-three years in Jerusalem. 
5 And these were born to him in Jerusalem: Shimea, Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon, four by Bathshua the daughter of Ammiel; 
6 then Ibhar, Elishama, Eliphelet, 
7 Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia, 
8 Elishama, Eliada, and Eliphelet, nine. 
9 All these were the sons of David, besides the sons of the concubines. And Tamar was their sister.
10 Now the son of Solomon was Rehoboam; Abijah was his son, Asa was his son, Jehoshaphat was his son, 
11 Joram was his son, Ahaziah was his son, Joash was his son, 
12 Amaziah was his son, Azariah was his son, Jotham was his son, 
13 Ahaz was his son, Hezekiah was his son, Manasseh was his son, 
14 Amon was his son, Josiah was his son.
15 And the sons of Josiah: Johanan the firstborn, the second Jehoiakim, the third Zedekiah, the fourth Shallum. 
16 And the descendants of Jehoiakim: Jeconiah his son, Zedekiah his son. 
17 And the sons of Jeconiah, the captive: Shealtiel his son, 
18 Malchiram, Pedaiah, Shenazzar, Jekamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah. 
19 And the sons of Pedaiah: Zerubbabel and Shimei. And the sons of Zerubbabel: Meshullam and Hananiah, and Shelomith their sister, 
20 and Hashubah, Ohel, Berekiah, Hasadiah, and Jushab-Hesed, five. 
21 And the sons of Hananiah: Pelatiah and Jeshaiah. The sons of Rephaiah, the sons of Arnan, the sons of Obadiah, the sons of Shecaniah. 
22 And the sons of Shecaniah: Shemaiah. And the sons of Shemaiah: Hattush, Igal, Bariah, Neariah, and Shaphat, six. 
23 And the sons of Neariah: Elioenai, Hezekiah, and Azrikam, three. 
24 And the sons of Elioenai: Hodaviah, Eliashib, Pelaiah, Akkub, Johanan, Delaiah, and Anani, seven.