1 Now Benjamin fathered Bela his firstborn, Ashbel the second, Aharah the third, 
2 Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth. 
3 And Bela had sons: Addar, Gera, Abihud, 
4 Abishua, Naaman, Ahoah, 
5 Gera, Shephuphan, and Huram. 
6 And these are the sons of Ehud (these were heads of the families for the inhabitants of Geba, and they took them away to Manahath): 
7 Naaman, Ahijah, and Gera, who took them away. And he fathered Uzza and Ahihud. 
8 And Shaharaim fathered children in the fields of Moab after he had sent them away—Hushim and Baara, his wives. 
9 And he fathered by Hodesh his wife Jobab, Zibia, Mesha, Malcam, 
10 Jeuz, Sakia, and Mirmah. These were his sons, heads of the families. 
11 And by Husham he fathered Abitub and Elpaal. 
12 The sons of Elpaal: Eber, Misham, Shemed (he built Ono and Lod with its towns), 
13 and Beriah and Shema who were the heads of the families of the inhabitants of Aijalon (they themselves chased away the inhabitants of Gath). 
14 Now Ahio, Shashak, Jeremoth, 
15 Zebadiah, Arad, Eder, 
16 Michael, Ishpah, and Joha were sons of Beriah. 
17 And Zebadiah, Meshullam, Hizki, Heber, 
18 Ishmerai, Izliah, and Jobab were the sons of Elpaal. 
19 And Jakim, Zikri, Zabdi, 
20 Elienai, Zillethai, Eliel, 
21 Adaiah, Beraiah, and Shimrath were the sons of Shimei. 
22 And Ishpan, Eber, Eliel, 
23 Abdon, Zikri, Hanan, 
24 Hananiah, Elam, Antothijah, 
25 Iphdeiah, and Peniel were the sons of Shashak. 
26 And Shamsherai, Shehariah, Athaliah, 
27 Jaareshiah, Elijah, and Zikri were the sons of Jeroham. 
28 These were the heads of the families according to their generations, chiefs. These lived in Jerusalem. 
29 And Jeiel the father of Gibeon lived in Gibeon. And the name of his wife was Maacah. 
30 And his firstborn son was Abdon, then Zur, Kish, Baal, Nadab, 
31 Gedor, Ahio, Zeker, 
32 and Mikloth (he fathered Shimeah). Now these also lived nearby their brothers in Jerusalem with their kinsmen. 
33 And Ner fathered Kish, and Kish fathered Saul, and Saul fathered Jonathan, Malchi-Shua, Abinadab, and Eshbaal. 
34 And the son of Jonathan was Merib-baal, and Merib-baal fathered Micah. 
35 And the sons of Micah: Pithon, Melech, Tarea, and Ahaz. 
36 And Ahaz fathered Jehoaddah, and Jehoaddah fathered Alemeth, Azmaveth, and Zimri. And Zimri fathered Moza. 
37 And Moza fathered Binea; Raphah was his son, Eleasah his son, and Azel his son. 
38 And Azel had six sons, and these are their names: Azrikam, Bokeru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel. 
39 And the sons of Eshek his brother: Ulam his firstborn, Jeush the second, and Eliphelet the third. 
40 And the sons of Ulam were men who were mighty warriors, bowmen, and they had many sons and grandsons, one hundred and fifty. All these were Benjaminites.