1 The sons of Judah: Perez, Hezron, Carmi, Hur, and Shobal. 
2 And Reaiah the son of Shobal fathered Jahath, and Jahath fathered Ahumai and Lahad. These were the clans of the Zorathites. 
3 And these were the sons of Etam: Jezreel, Ishma, and Idbash. And the name of their sister was Hazzelelponi, 
4 and Penuel was the father of Gedor, and Ezer was the father of Hushah. These were the sons of Hur, the firstborn of Ephrathah, the father of Bethlehem. 
5 And Ashhur, the father of Tekoa, had two wives: Helah and Naarah. 
6 And Naarah bore him Ahuzzam, Hepher, Temeni, and Haahashtari. These were the sons of Naarah. 
7 The sons of Helah: Zereth, Izhar, and Ethnan. 
8 And Koz fathered Anub, Zobebah, and the clans of Aharhel, the son of Harum. 
9 And Jabez was more honorable than his brothers. And his mother called his name Jabez, saying, "Because I bore him in pain." 
10 And Jabez called upon the God of Israel, saying, "Oh that you would surely bless me and enlarge my border. And may your hand be with me, that you would keep me from evil so that it might not harm me!" And God granted what he asked. 
11 Chelub, the brother of Shuhah, fathered Mehir. He was the father of Eshton. 
12 And Eshton fathered Beth-Rapha, Paseah, and Tehinnah, the father of the city of Nahash. These are the men of Recah. 
13 The sons of Kenaz: Othniel and Seraiah. And the sons of Othniel: Hathath. 
14 And Meonothai fathered Ophrah; and Seraiah fathered Joab, the father of Ge-Harashim, because they were craftsmen. 
15 The sons of Caleb, the son of Jephunneh: Iru, Elah, and Naam. And the sons of Elah: Kenaz. 
16 The sons of Jehallelel: Ziph, Ziphah, Tiria, and Asarel. 
17 The sons of Ezrah: Jether, Mered, Epher, and Jalon. And she became pregnant with Miriam, Shammai, and Ishbah, the father of Eshtemoa. 
18 And his Judahite wife bore Jered the father of Gedor, Heber the father of Soco, and Jekuthiel the father of Zanoah. And these were the sons of Bithiah daughter of Pharaoh, whom Mered married. 
19 The sons of the wife of Hodiah, the sister of Naham, were the fathers of Keilah the Garmite and Eshtemoa the Maacathite. 
20 The sons of Shimon: Amnon, Rinnah, Ben-Hanan, and Tolon. The sons of Ishi: Zoheth and Ben-Zoheth. 
21 The sons of Shelah, the son of Judah: Er the father of Lecah, Laadah the father of Mareshah, and the families of the house of linen workers at Beth Ashbea; 
22 and Jokim, and the men of Cozeba, and Joash, and Saraph, who ruled in Moab and returned to Lehem. (Now the records are ancient). 
23 These were the potters and inhabitants of Netaim and Gederah. They lived there with the king in his service.
24 The sons of Simeon: Nemuel, Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, Shaul. 
25 Shallum his son, Mibsam his son, Mishma his son. 
26 The sons of Mishma: Hammuel his son, Zaccur his son, Shimei his son. 
27 Shimei had sixteen sons and six daughters, but his brothers did not have many children. But all their families did not multiply like the men of Judah. 
28 And they lived in Beersheba, Moladah, Hazar Shual, 
29 Bilhah, Ezem, Tolad, 
30 Bethuel, Hormah, Ziklag, 
31 Beth-Marcaboth, Hazar-Susim, Beth-Biri, and Shaaraim. These were their cities until David reigned. 
32 And their villages were Etam, Ain, Rimmon, Token, and Ashan, five cities 
33 and all their villages that surrounding these cities as far as Baal. These were their settlements, and they kept a genealogical record for them.
34 Meshobab, Jamlech, and Joshah the son of Amaziah, 
35 Joel, and Jehu the son of Joshibiah, son of Seraiah, son of Asiel. 
36 And Elioenai, Jaakobah, Jeshohaiah, Asaiah, Adiel, Jesimiel, Benaiah, 
37 and Ziza the son of Shiphi, son of Allon, son of Jedaiah, son of Shimri, son of Shemaiah. 
38 These mentioned by name were leaders in their families, and their fathers' households increased greatly. 
39 And they went to the entrance of Gedor, up to the east side of the valley, to seek pasture for their flocks. 
40 And they found fertile and good pasture, and the land was very broad, quiet, and at ease, for the former inhabitants there were from Ham. 
41 These, mentioned by name, came in the days of Hezekiah, king of Judah, and attacked their tents and the Meunites who were found there. And they devoted them to destruction to this day, and they settled among them because there was pasture there for their flocks. 
42 And some of them from the Simeonites went to Mount Seir, five hundred men. And Pelatiah, Neariah, Rephaiah, and Uzziel, the sons of Ishi, were under their leadership. 
43 And they destroyed the remainder of the Amalekites who had escaped, and they have lived there to this day.