1 And as for the number of the Israelites, the heads of families, the commanders of thousands and hundreds, and their officials who serve the king in all matters of the working groups that came and went, month by month, throughout all the months of the year, each working group: twenty-four thousand.
2 Over the first working group for the first month: Jashobeam the son of Zabdiel. And he was over his working group of twenty-four thousand. 
3 From the sons of Perez who was the chief of the commanders of the armies for the first month. 
4 And over the working groups of the second month: Dodai the Ahohite and his working group, and Mikloth the commander. And he was over his working group of twenty-four thousand. 
5 The third commander of the army for the third month was Benaiah son of Jehoiada the chief priest. And he was over his working group of twenty-four thousand. 
6 This was Benaiah who was a mighty warrior of thirty, and over the thirty and his working group was Ammizabad his son. 
7 The fourth, for the fourth month, was Asahel the brother of Joab and his son Zebadiah after him. And he was over his working group of twenty-four thousand. 
8 The fifth, for the fifth month, the commander was Shamhuth the Izrahite. And he was over his working group of twenty-four thousand. 
9 The sixth, for the sixth month, was Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite. And he was over his working group of twenty-four thousand. 
10 The seventh, for the seventh month, was Helez the Pelonite, from the sons of Ephraim. And he was over his working group of twenty-four thousand. 
11 The eighth, for the eighth month, was Sibbecai the Hushathite of the Zerahites. And he was over his working group of twenty-four thousand. 
12 The ninth, for the ninth month, was Abiezer the Anathothite of the Benjamites. And he was over his working group of twenty-four thousand. 
13 The tenth, for the tenth month, was Maharai the Netophathite of the Zerahites. And he was over his working group of twenty-four thousand. 
14 The eleventh, for the eleventh month, was Benaiah the Pirathonite from the sons of Ephraim. And he was over his working group of twenty-four thousand. 
15 The twelfth, for the twelfth month, was Heldai the Netophathite, of Othniel. And he was over his working group of twenty-four thousand.
16 And over the tribes of Israel, for the Reubenites: the commander was Eliezer the son of Zikri. For the Simeonites: Shephatiah the son of Maacah. 
17 For Levi: Hashabiah the son of Kemuel. For Aaron, Zadok. 
18 For Judah: Elihu, from the brothers of David. For Issachar: Omri the son of Michael. 
19 For Zebulun: Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah. For Naphtali: Jerimoth the son of Azriel. 
20 For the Ephraimites: Hoshea the son of Azaziah. For the half-tribe of Manasseh: Joel the son of Pedaiah. 
21 For the half-tribe of Manasseh in Gilead: Iddo the son of Zechariah. For Benjamin: Jaasiel son of Abner. 
22 For Dan: Azarel the son of Jeroham. These were the commanders of the tribes of Israel. 
23 And David did not take a census of those twenty years old or under because Yahweh promised to make Israel more numerous than the stars of heaven. 
24 Joab the son of Zeruiah began to count, but he did not finish. But wrath came upon Israel concerning this, and the number was not included in the chronicles of King David.
25 And over the treasury rooms of the king was Azmaveth the son of Adiel. And over the treasuries in the country, in the cities, in the unwalled villages, and in the towers was Jonathan the son of Uzziah. 
26 And over those who did the work in the field to till the soil was Ezri the son of Kelub. 
27 And over the vineyards was Shemei the Ramathite. And over the produce in the vineyards for the storehouses of the wine was Zabdi the Shiphmite. 
28 And over the olive trees and the sycamore trees that were in the Shephelah was Baal-Hanan the Gederite. And over the treasury houses of olive oil was Joash. 
29 And over the cattle pastured in the Sharon was Shitrai the Sharonite. And over the cattle in the valley was Shaphat the son of Adlai. 
30 And over the camels was Obil the Ishmaelite. And over the female donkeys was Jehdeiah the Meronothite. And over the sheep was Jaziz the Hagrite. 
31 All of these were officials of the property of King David.
32 And Jehonathan the uncle of David was an adviser, a man of insight, and he was a scribe. And Jehiel the son of Hachmoni was with the sons of the king. 
33 And Ahithophel was an adviser to the king, and Hushai the Arkite was a friend of the king.
34 And after Ahithophel came Jehoiada, the son of Benaiah, and Abiathar. And Joab was the commander of the king's army.