1 Adam, Seth, Enosh; 
2 Kenan, Mahalalel, Jared; 
3 Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech; 
4 Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
5 The sons of Japheth: Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras. 
6 The sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, Diphath, and Togarmah. 
7 The sons of Javan: Elishah, Tarshish, Kittim, and Rhodanim.
8 The sons of Ham: Cush, Mizraim, Put, and Canaan. 
9 The sons of Cush: Seba, Havilah, Sabta, Raamah, and Sabteca. And the sons of Raamah: Sheba and Dedan. 
10 And Cush fathered Nimrod; he himself began to be mighty on earth. 
11 And Mizraim fathered the Ludim, the Anamim, the Lehabim, the Naphtuhim, 
12 the Pathrusim, the Casluhim (from whence the Philistines descended), and the Caphtorim. 
13 And Canaan fathered Zidon his firstborn, and Heth, 
14 and the Jebusites, the Amorites, the Girgashites, 
15 the Hivites, the Arkites, the Sinites, 
16 the Arvadites, the Zemarites, and the Hamathites.
17 The sons of Shem: Elam, Asshur, Arphaxad, Lud, Aram, Uz, Hul, Gether, and Meshech. 
18 And Arphaxad fathered Shelah; and Shelah fathered Eber. 
19 And two sons were born to Eber: the name of the one was Peleg (for in his days the earth was divided), and the name of his brother was Joktan. 
20 And Joktan fathered Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah, 
21 Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah, 
22 Ebal, Abimael, Sheba, 
23 Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab; all these were the sons of Joktan. 
24 Shem, Arphaxad, Shelah; 
25 Eber, Peleg, Reu; 
26 Serug, Nahor, Terah; 
27 Abram, that is, Abraham.
28 The sons of Abraham: Isaac and Ishmael. 
29 These are their generations: the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebaioth, and Kedar, Abdeel, Mibsam, 
30 Mishma, Dumah, Massa, Hadad, Tema, 
31 Jetur, Naphish, and Kedmah. These are the sons of Ishmael. 
32 And the sons of Keturah, Abraham's concubine: she gave birth to Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah. And the sons of Jokshan: Sheba and Dedan. 
33 And the sons of Midian: Ephah, Epher, Enoch, Abida, and Eldaah. All these were the sons of Keturah.
34 Abraham fathered Isaac. The sons of Isaac: Esau and Israel. 
35 The sons of Esau: Eliphaz, Reuel, Jeush, Jalam, and Korah. 
36 The sons of Eliphaz: Teman, Omar, Zephi, Gatam, Kenaz, Timna, and Amalek. 
37 The sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah. 
38 And the sons of Seir: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan. 
39 And the sons of Lotan: Hori and Homam; and the sister of Lotan was Timna. 
40 The sons of Shobal: Alian, Manahath, Ebal, Shephi, and Onam. And the sons of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah. 
41 The sons of Anah: Dishon. And the sons of Dishon: Hamran, Eshban, Ithran, and Keran. 
42 The sons of Ezer: Bilhan, Zaavan, and Jaakan. The sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran.
43 These are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom before any king reigned over the Israelites: Bela son of Beor, and the name of his city was Dinhabah. 
44 When Bela died, Jobab son of Zerah from Bozrah reigned in his place. 
45 When Jobab died, Husham from the land of the Temanites reigned in his place. 
46 When Husham died, Hadad son of Bedad, who defeated the Midianites in the country of Moab, reigned in his place. And the name of his city was Avith. 
47 When Hadad died, Samlah from Masrekah reigned in his place. 
48 When Samlah died, Shaul from Rehoboth-by-the-River reigned in his place. 
49 When Shaul died, Baal-Hanan son of Achbor reigned in his place. 
50 When Baal-Hanan died, Hadad reigned in his place, and the name of his city was Pai. And the name of his wife was Mehetabel, daughter of Matred, daughter of Me-Zahab. 
51 And Hadad died. And the chiefs of Edom were: chiefs Timna, Aliah, Jetheth, 
52 Oholibamah, Elah, Pinon, 
53 Kenaz, Teman, Mibzar, 
54 Magdiel, and Iram. These are the chiefs of Edom.