1 These are the sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun, 
2 Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher. 
3 The sons of Judah: Er, Onan and Shelah; these three were born to him from Bathshua the Canaanite. Now Er, Judah's firstborn, was evil in the sight of Yahweh, and he put him to death. 
4 And Tamar his daughter-in-law bore Perez and Zerah to him. The sons of Judah were five in all.
5 The sons of Perez: Hezron and Hamul. 
6 The sons of Zerah: Zimri, Ethan, Heman, Calcol, and Dara, five in all. 
7 The son of Carmi: Achar, the troubler of Israel, who acted unfaithfully in the matter of the devoted thing. 
8 And the son of Ethan was Azariah.
9 The sons of Hezron who were born to him: Jerahmeel, Ram, and Caleb. 
10 And Ram fathered Amminadab, and Amminadab fathered Nahshon, prince of the sons of Judah. 
11 And Nahshon fathered Salma, and Salma fathered Boaz. 
12 And Boaz fathered Obed, and Obed fathered Jesse. 
13 And Jesse fathered Eliab his firstborn, Abinadab the second, Shimea the third, 
14 Nethanel the fourth, Raddai the fifth, 
15 Ozem the sixth, David the seventh. 
16 And their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. The sons of Zeruiah: Abishai, Joab, and Asahel, three. 
17 And Abigail bore Amasa, and the father of Amasa was Jether the Ishmaelite.
18 And Caleb the son of Hezron fathered children by Azubah his wife and by Jerioth. And these were her sons: Jesher, Shobab, and Ardon. 
19 And when Azubah died, Caleb married Ephrathah, and she bore Hur to him. 
20 And Hur fathered Uri, and Uri fathered Bezalel.
21 And afterward Hezron went in to the daughter of Makir the father of Gilead. And he married her when he was sixty years old. And she bore Segub to him. 
22 And Segub fathered Jair, and he had twenty-three cities in the land of Gilead. 
23 And Geshur and Aram took Havvoth-Jair from them, Kenath and its villages, sixty cities. All these were the descendants of Makir, the father of Gilead. 
24 And after the death of Hezron in Caleb-Ephrathah, Abijah the wife of Hezron bore to him Ashhur, the father of Tekoa.
25 And the sons of Jerahmeel the firstborn of Hezron were Ram his firstborn, Bunah, Oren, Ozem, and Ahijah. 
26 And Jerahmeel had another wife, and her name was Atarah. She was the mother of Onam. 
27 The sons of Ram the firstborn of Jerahmeel were Maaz, Jamin, and Eker. 
28 And the sons of Onam were Shammai and Jada. And the sons of Shammai were Nadab and Abishur. 
29 And the name of the wife of Abishur was Abihail, and she bore to him Ahban and Molid. 
30 And the sons of Nadab were Seled and Appaim. And Seled died without children. 
31 And the sons of Appaim: Ishi. The sons of Ishi: Sheshan. The sons of Sheshan: Ahlai. 
32 And the sons of Jada the brother of Shammai: Jether and Jonathan. And Jether died without children. 
33 And the sons of Jonathan: Peleth and Zaza. These were the children of Jerahmeel. 
34 And Sheshan had no sons, only daughters, but Sheshan had an Egyptian slave, and his name was Jarha. 
35 So Sheshan gave his daughter to Jarha his slave for a wife, and she bore to him Attai. 
36 And Attai fathered Nathan, and Nathan fathered Zabad. 
37 And Zabad fathered Ephlal, and Ephlal fathered Obed. 
38 And Obed fathered Jehu, and Jehu fathered Azariah. 
39 And Azariah fathered Helez, and Helez fathered Eleasah. 
40 And Eleasah fathered Sismai, and Sismai fathered Shallum. 
41 And Shallum fathered Jekamiah, and Jekamiah fathered Elishama.
42 And the sons of Caleb the brother of Jerahmeel were Mesha his firstborn; he was the father of Ziph. The sons of Mareshah: Hebron. 
43 And the sons of Hebron were Korah, Tappuah, Rekem, and Shema. 
44 And Shema fathered Raham, the father of Jorkeam. And Rekem fathered Shammai. 
45 And the son of Shammai was Maon, and Maon was the father of Beth-Zur. 
46 And Ephah, the concubine of Caleb, gave birth to Haran, Moza, and Gazez. And Haran fathered Gazez. 
47 And the sons of Jahdai were Regem, Jotham, Geshan, Pelet, Ephah, and Shaaph. 
48 Maacah, the concubine of Caleb, gave birth to Sheber and Tirhanah. 
49 She also gave birth to Shaaph the father of Madmannah, Sheva the father of Machbenah and the father of Gibea; and the daughter of Caleb was Acsah. 
50 These were the descendants of Caleb. The sons of Hur the firstborn of Ephrathah: Shobal the father of Kiriath-Jearim, 
51 Salma the father of Bethlehem, and Hareph the father of Beth-Gader. 
52 And Shobal the father of Kiriath-Jearim had other sons: Haroeh, half of the Menuhoth. 
53 And the families of Kiriath-Jearim: the Ithrites, the Puthites, the Shumathites, and the Mishraites. From these descended the Zorathites and the Eshtaolites. 
54 The sons of Salma: Bethlehem, the Netophathites, Ataroth-Beth-Joab, and half of the Manahathites, the Zorites. 
55 And the families of the scribes who lived at Jabez: the Tirathites, the Shimeathites, and the Sucathites. These were the Kenites who came from Hammath, the father of the house of Recab.