1 Simeon Peter, a slave and apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who have obtained a faith equal in value to ours by the righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ. 
2 May grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord, 
3 because his divine power has bestowed on us all things that are necessary for life and godliness, through the knowledge of the one who called us by his own glory and excellence of character, 
4 through which things he has bestowed on us his precious and very great promises, so that through these you may become sharers of the divine nature after escaping from the corruption that is in the world because of evil desire, 
5 and for this same reason, and by applying all diligence, supply with your faith excellence of character, and with excellence of character, knowledge, 
6 and with knowledge, self-control, and with self-control, patient endurance, and with patient endurance, godliness, 
7 and with godliness, brotherly love, and with brotherly love, love.
8 For if these things are yours and are increasing, this does not make you useless or unproductive in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
9 For the one for whom these things are not present is blind, being nearsighted, having forgotten the cleansing of his former sins. 
10 Therefore, brothers, be zealous even more to make your calling and election secure, because if you do these things, you will never ever stumble. 
11 For in this way entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ will be richly supplied for you.
12 Therefore I intend to remind you continually concerning these things, although you know them and are established in the truth that you have. 
13 But I consider it right, for as long as I am in this habitation, to stir you up by a reminder, 
14 because I know that the removal of my habitation is imminent, as indeed our Lord Jesus Christ made clear to me. 
15 And I will also make every effort that you are able at any time, after my departure, to recall these things to mind.
16 For we did not make known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ by following ingeniously concocted myths, but by being eyewitnesses of that one's majesty. 
17 For he received honor and glory from God the Father when a voice such as this was brought to him by the Majestic Glory, "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased." 
18 And we ourselves heard this voice brought from heaven when we were with him on the holy mountain, 
19 and we possess as more reliable the prophetic word, to which you do well if you pay attention to it as to a lamp shining in a dark place, until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts, 
20 recognizing this above all, that every prophecy of scripture does not come about from one's own interpretation, 
21 for no prophecy was ever produced by the will of man, but men carried along by the Holy Spirit spoke from God.