1 "And there shall not be for the Levitical priests, the whole tribe of Levi, a plot of ground and an inheritance with Israel, rather they may eat an offering made by fire as their inheritance, for Yahweh. 
2 And there shall not be for them an inheritance of land in the midst of his brothers; rather Yahweh is his inheritance, just as he promised to them.
3 Now this shall be the share of the priest from the people, from those who sacrifice the sacrifice, whether it is an ox, sheep, or goat, and they shall give the priest the shoulder and the jawbones and the stomach. 
4 The firstfruits of your grain, your wine, and your olive oil and the firstfruits of the fleece of your sheep you shall give to him. 
5 For Yahweh your God has chosen him from among all your tribes to stand to minister in the name of Yahweh, he and his sons forever.
6 And if a Levite comes from one of your towns from anywhere in Israel where he is residing, he may come whenever he desires, to the place that Yahweh will choose, 
7 and he may minister in the name of Yahweh his God, just like all his brothers, the Levites who stand there before Yahweh. 
8 They shall eat equal portions, apart from what he may receive from the sale of his patrimony.
9 "When you come to the land that Yahweh your God is giving to you, you must not learn to do like the detestable practices of those nations. 
10 There shall not be found among you one who makes his son or his daughter go through the fire, or one who practices divination, or an interpreter of signs, or an augur, or sorcerer, 
11 or one who casts magic spells, or one who consults a spirit of the dead, or spiritist, or one who inquires of the dead. 
12 For everyone doing these things is detestable to Yahweh, and because of these detestable things Yahweh your God is driving them out from before you. 
13 You must be blameless before Yahweh your God. 
14 For these nations that you are about to dispossess listen to interpreters of signs and to diviners, but Yahweh your God has not allowed you to do the same.
15 "Yahweh your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from your midst, from your countrymen, and to him you shall listen. 
16 This is according to all that you asked from Yahweh your God at Horeb, on the day of the assembly, saying, 'I do not want again to hear the voice of Yahweh my God, and I do not want to see again this great fire, so that I may not die!' 
17 And Yahweh said to me, 'They are right in what they have said. 
18 I will raise up a prophet for them from among their countrymen like you, and I will place my words into his mouth, and he shall speak to them everything that I command him. 
19 And then the man that will not listen to my words that he shall speak in my name, I will hold accountable. 
20 However, the prophet that behaves presumptuously by speaking a word in my name that I have not commanded him to speak, and who speaks in the name of other gods, then that prophet shall die.' 
21 And if you say to yourself, 'How can we know the word that Yahweh has not spoken to him?' 
22 Whenever what the prophet spoke in the name of Yahweh, the thing does not take place and does not come about, that is the thing that Yahweh has not spoken to him. Presumptuously the prophet spoke it; you shall not fear that prophet."