1 "At that time Yahweh said to me, 'Carve for yourself two tablets of stone just as the former ones, and come up the mountain to me, and you shall make for yourself an ark of wood. 
2 And I will write on the tablets the words that were on the former tablets, which you smashed, and you must put them in the ark.' 
3 And so I made an ark of acacia wood, and I carved two tablets of stone like the former ones, and I went up the mountain with the two tablets in my hand. 
4 And he wrote upon the tablets according to the first writing, the ten words that Yahweh spoke to you on the mountain from the midst of the fire on the day of the assembly, and Yahweh gave them to me. 
5 And I turned, and I came down from the mountain, and I put the tablets in the ark that I had made, and they are there, just as Yahweh commanded me.
6 "And the Israelites journeyed from the wells of Bene-Yaqan to Moserah; there Aaron died and was buried, and Eleazar, his son, served as a priest in place of him. 
7 From there they journeyed to Gudgodah, and from Gudgodah to Jotbathah, a land flowing with streams of water. 
8 At that time Yahweh set apart the tribe of Levi to carry the ark of the covenant of Yahweh to stand before Yahweh, to serve him and to bless the people in his name until this day. 
9 Therefore there was not for Levi an allotment or an inheritance along with his brothers; rather Yahweh is his inheritance just as Yahweh your God promised to him.
10 And I stayed on the mountain just as during the former forty days and forty nights, and Yahweh listened to me also on that occasion; Yahweh was not willing to destroy you. 
11 And Yahweh said to me, 'Come, continue your journey before the people,  so that you may go and take possession of the land that I swore to their ancestors to give to them.'
12 And now, Israel, what is Yahweh your God asking from you, except to revere Yahweh your God, to go in all his ways and to love him and to serve Yahweh your God with all your heart and with all your soul, 
13 to keep the commandments of Yahweh and his statutes that I am commanding you today for your own good. 
14 Look! For to Yahweh your God belong heaven and the highest heavens, the earth and all that is in it. 
15 Yet to your ancestors Yahweh was very attached, so as to love them, and so he chose their offspring after them, namely you, from all the peoples, as it is today. 
16 So you shall circumcise the foreskin of your heart, and do not be stubborn. 
17 For Yahweh your God, he is God of the gods and Lord of the lords, the great and mighty God, the awesome one who is not partial, and he does not take bribes. 
18 And he executes justice for the orphan and widow, and he is one who loves the alien, to give to them food and clothing. 
19 And you shall love the alien, for you were aliens in the land of Egypt. 
20 Yahweh your God, you shall revere him, you shall serve him, and to him you shall cling, and by his name you shall swear. 
21 He is your praise, and he is your God, who has done with you these great and awesome things that your eyes have seen. 
22 With only seventy persons your ancestors went down to Egypt, but now Yahweh your God has made you as the stars of the heaven with respect to multitude.