1 "All of the commandments that I am commanding you today you must diligently observe, so that you may live and multiply, and you may go and take possession of the land that Yahweh swore to your ancestors. 
2 And you shall remember all of the way that Yahweh your God led you during these forty years in the desert in order to humble you and to test you to know what is in your heart, whether you would diligently keep his commandments or not. 
3 And he humbled you and let you go hungry, and then he fed you with that which you did not know nor did your ancestors know, in order to make you know that not by bread alone but by all that goes out of the mouth of Yahweh humankind shall live. 
4 Your clothing did not wear out on you, and your feet did not swell during these forty years. 
5 And you should know with your heart that as a man disciplines his son, so Yahweh your God is disciplining you. 
6 So you must keep the commandments of Yahweh your God by walking in his ways and by fearing him. 
7 For Yahweh your God is bringing you to a good land with streams of water, springs and underground water, welling up in the valleys and in the hills, 
8 to a land of wheat and barley and vines and fig trees and pomegranate trees, a land of olive trees, olive oil and honey; 
9 to a land where you may eat food in it without scarcity; you will not find anything lacking in it, a land where its stones are iron and from its mountains you can mine copper. 
10 And you will eat, and you will be satisfied, and you will bless Yahweh your God because of the good land that he has given to you.
11 "Take care for yourself so that you not forget Yahweh your God by not keeping his commandments and his regulations and his statutes that I am commanding you today, 
12 lest when you have eaten and you are satisfied and you have built good houses and you live in them, 
13 and your herds and your flocks have multiplied, and you have accumulated silver and gold, and all that you have has multiplied, 
14 then your heart becomes proud and you forget Yahweh your God, the one who brought you out from the land of Egypt, from the house of slavery, 
15 the one leading you in the great and terrible desert infested with dangerous snakes and scorpions and parched ground, where there is no water, and the one bringing out water for you from flint rock, 
16 the one feeding you manna in the desert, food that your ancestors did not know, in order to humble you and in order to test you so that he could do good to you in the future. 
17 And you may think in your heart, 'My strength and the might of my hand acquired this wealth for me.' 
18 But you must remember Yahweh your God, for he is the one giving you strength to acquire wealth in order to confirm his covenant that he swore to your ancestors as it is today. 
19 And it will happen that if you indeed forget Yahweh your God and you go after other gods and you serve them and you bow down before them, I warn you today that you will surely perish. 
20 As with the nations that Yahweh is destroying before you, so you shall perish because you would not obey the voice of Yahweh your God.