1 "When a man takes a wife and he marries her and then she does not please him, because he found something objectionable and writes her a letter of divorce and puts it in her hand and sends her away from his house, 
2 and she goes from his house, and she goes out and becomes a wife for another man, 
3 and then the second man dislikes her and he writes her a letter of divorce and places it into her hand and sends her from his house, or if the second man dies who took her to himself as a wife, 
4 her first husband who sent her away is not allowed to take her again to become a wife to him after she has been defiled, for that is a detestable thing before Yahweh, and so you shall not mislead into sin the land that Yahweh your God is giving to you as an inheritance.
5 "When a man takes a new wife he shall not go out with the army, and he shall not be obligated with anything; he shall be free from obligation, to stay at home for one year, and he shall bring joy to his wife that he took.
6 "A person shall not take a pair of millstones or an upper millstone, for he is taking necessities of life as a pledge.
7 "If a man is caught kidnapping somebody from among his countrymen, the Israelites, and he treats him as a slave or he sells him, then that kidnapper shall die, and so you shall purge the evil from among you.
8 Be watchful with respect to an outbreak of any infectious skin disease, by being very careful and by acting according to all that the priests and the Levites have instructed you, just as I have commanded them, so you shall diligently observe. 
9 So remember what Yahweh your God did to Miriam on the journey when you went out from Egypt.
10 "When you make a loan to your neighbor, a loan of any kind, you shall not go into his house to take his pledge. 
11 You shall wait outside, and the man to whom you are lending, he shall bring the pledge outside to you. 
12 And if he is a needy man, you shall not sleep in his pledge. 
13 You shall certainly return the pledge to him as the sun sets, so that he may sleep in his cloak and may bless you, and it shall be considered righteousness on your behalf before Yahweh your God.
14 "You shall not exploit a hired worker, who is needy and poor, from among your fellow men or from among your aliens who are in your land and in your towns. 
15 On his day you shall give his wage, and the sun shall not go down, because he is poor and his life depends on it; do this so that he does not cry out against you to Yahweh, and you incur guilt.
16 "Fathers shall not be put to death because of their children, and children shall not be put to death because of their fathers; each one shall be put to death for his own sin. 
17 You shall not subvert the rights of an alien or an orphan, and you shall not take as pledge the garment of a widow. 
18 And you shall remember that you were a slave in Egypt and that Yahweh your God redeemed you from there; therefore I am commanding you to do this commandment.
19 "When you reap your harvest in your field and you forget a sheaf in the field, you shall not return to get it, for it shall be for the alien, for the orphan, and for the widow, so that Yahweh your God may bless you in all the work of your hands. 
20 When you beat off the fruit of your olive trees you shall not search through the branches afterward, for it shall be for the alien, for the orphan, and for the widow.
21 When you harvest grapes, you shall not glean your vineyards again; it shall be for the alien, for the orphan, and for the widow. 
22 And you shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, therefore I am commanding you to do this thing."