1 Now this is the blessing with which Moses, the man of God, blessed the Israelites before his death.
2 Then he said, "Yahweh came from Sinai, and he dawned upon them from Seir; he shone forth from Mount Paran, and he came with myriads of holy ones, at his right hand a fiery law for them.
3 Moreover, he loves his people, all the holy ones were in your hand, and they bowed down to your feet, each one accepted directions from you.
4 A law Moses instructed for us, as a possession for the assembly of Jacob.
5 And then a king arose in Jeshurun, at the gathering of the leaders of the people, united were the tribes of Israel.
6 "May Reuben live, and may he not die, and let his number not be few."
7 And he said this of Judah, "Hear, O Yahweh, the voice of Judah, and bring him to his people; his own hands strive for him, and may you be a help against his foes."
8 And of Levi he said, "Your Thummim and your Urim are for your faithful one, whom you tested at Massah; you contended with him at the waters of Meribah.
9 The one saying of his father and of his mother, 'I have not regarded them,' and his brothers he did not acknowledge, and his children he did not know, but rather they observed your word, and your covenant they kept.
10 They taught your regulations to Jacob, and your law to Israel; they placed incense smoke before you, and whole burnt offerings on your altar.
11 Bless, O Yahweh, his substance, and with the work of his hands you must be pleased; smite the loins of those who attack him, and those hating him, so that they cannot arise."
12 Of Benjamin he said, "The beloved of Yahweh dwells securely, the Most High shields all around him, all the day, and between his shoulders he dwells."
13 And of Joseph he said, "Blessed by Yahweh is his land, with the choice things of heaven, with dew, and with the deep lying down beneath,
14 and with the choice things of the fruits of the the sun, and with the choice things of the yield of the seasons,
15 and with the finest things of the ancient mountains, and with the choice things of the eternal hills,
16 and with the choice things of the earth and its fullness, and the favor of the one who dwelt in the bush. Let them come to the head of Joseph, and to the crown of the prince among his brothers.
17 As the firstborn of his ox, majesty belongs to him, and his horns are the horns of a wild ox; with them he drives people together, and they are the myriads of Ephraim, and they are the thousands of Manasseh."
18 And of Zebulun he said, "Rejoice, Zebulun, in your going out, and rejoice, Issachar, in your tents;
19 They summon people to the mountains; there they sacrifice the sacrifices of righteousness, because the affluence of the seas they suck out, and the most hidden treasures of the sand."
20 And of Gad he said, "Blessed be the one who enlarges Gad; like a lion he dwells, and he tears an arm as well as a scalp.
21 And he selected the best part for himself,  for there the portion of a ruler is included, and he came with the heads of the people; he did the righteousness of Yahweh, and his regulations for Israel."
22 And of Dan he said, "Dan is a cub of a lion; he leaps from Bashan."
23 And of Naphtali, he said, "Oh, Naphtali, sated of favor, and full of the blessing of Yahweh; take possession of the lake, and the land to the south."
24 And of Asher he said, "Blessed more than sons is Asher; may he be the favorite of his brothers, dipping his feet in the oil.
25 Your bars are iron and bronze, and as your days, so is your strength."
26 "There is no one like God, O, Jeshurun, who rides through the heavens to your help, and with his majesty through the skies.
27 The God of ancient time is a hiding place, and underneath are the arms of eternity, and he drove out from before you your enemy, and he said, 'Destroy them!'
28 So Israel dwells alone and carefree, the spring of Jacob in a land of grain and wine; his heavens even drip dew.
29 Blessed are you, O Israel. Who is like you, a people who is saved by Yahweh, the shield of your help, and who is the sword of your triumph, and your enemies, they shall fawn before you, and you shall tread on their backs."