1 "Then we turned, and we went up the road to Bashan, and Og the king of Bashan came out to meet us, he and all of his army for the battle at Edrei. 
2 And Yahweh said to me, 'You should not fear him, for I have given him and all of his army and his land into your hand. And so you will do to him as you did to Sihon the king of the Amorites, who was reigning in Heshbon.' 
3 And so Yahweh our God also gave Og the king of Bashan, and all of his army into our hand, and we struck him down until not a survivor remained to him. 
4 And we captured all of his towns at that time; there was not a city that we did not take from them. 
5 All of these were fortified towns with high walls, gates, and bars, apart from very many of the villages of the open country. 
6 And so we destroyed them just as we had done to Sihon the king of Heshbon; we destroyed utterly each town of males, the women, and the little children. 
7 But all of the livestock and the booty of the towns we kept as spoil for ourselves.
8 "And so we took at that time the land from the control of the two kings of the Amorites who were on the other side of the Jordan, from the wadi of Arnon up to Mount Hermon. 
9 (The Sidonians called Hermon 'Sirion,' and the Amorites called it 'Senir.') 
10 All of the towns of the plateau and the whole of Gilead and all of Bashan up to Salecah and Edrei, the towns of the kingdom of Og in Bashan. 
11 (For only Og, king of Bashan, was left from the remnant of the Rephaim. Indeed, his bedstead—it was a bedstead of iron. It is in Rabbah of the Ammonites. Nine cubits is its length, and four cubits is its width according to the cubit of a man.)
12 And so we took possession of this land at that time, from Aroer, which is on the edge of the wadi of Arnon, and also half of the hill country of Gilead and its towns I gave to the Reubenites and to the Gadites. 
13 And the remainder of Gilead and all of Bashan, the kingdom of Og, I gave to the half-tribe of Manasseh, the whole region of Argo. All of that area of Bashan was called the land of the Rephaim. 
14 Jair the descendant of Manasseh acquired the whole region of Argob, up to the boundary of the Geshurites and the Maacathites, and he called it, that is Bashan, after his own name, Havvoth Jair, as it still is today. 
15 And also I gave Gilead to Makir. 
16 And to the Reubenites and to the Gadites I gave, from Gilead up to the wadi of Arnon, the middle of the wadi as a boundary and up to the Jabbok River, the boundary of the Ammonites. 
17 And the Jordan Valley with the Jordan River as its boundary, from Kinnereth up to the Sea of the Arabah, the Salt Sea, with the slopes of Pisgah toward the east.
18 "And I charged you all at that time when I said, "Yahweh has given you—to all of you—this land to possess. All the warriors shall cross over, ready to fight, before your brothers, the Israelites. 
19 Only your wives and your little children and your livestock (I know that you have much livestock) must stay in your towns that I have given you, 
20 until Yahweh shall give rest to your brothers as he did to you, and also they take possession of the land that Yahweh your God is giving to them beyond the Jordan; then they may return, each one to his possession that I have given to them. 
21 And I commanded Joshua at that time, saying, 'Your eyes see all that Yahweh your God has done to these two kings; so Yahweh will do to all of the kingdoms where you are about to cross over to. 
22 You shall not fear them, for Yahweh your God is the one fighting for you.
23 "And I pleaded with Yahweh at that time, saying, 
24 'Lord Yahweh, you have begun to show your servant your greatness and your strong hand, for what god is there in the heaven or on the earth who can do according to your works and according to your mighty deeds? 
25 Let me cross over, please, and let me see the good land that is beyond the Jordan, this good hill country and Lebanon.' 
26 But Yahweh was very angry with me because of you, and he would not listen to me, and Yahweh said, 'Enough of that from you! You shall not speak to me any longer about this matter! 
27 Go up to the top of Pisgah and look around you toward the west, toward the north, and toward the east, and view the land with your eyes, for you will not cross this Jordan. 
28 Now instruct Joshua and support him and encourage him because he himself will cross over before this people and enable them to inherit the land that you will see.' 
29 So we remained in the valley opposite Beth Peor.