1 "At the end of seven years you shall grant a remission of debt. 
2 And this is the manner of the remission of debt: every creditor shall remit his claim that he holds against his neighbor, and he shall not exact payment from his brother because there a remission of debt has been proclaimed unto Yahweh. 
3 With respect to the foreigner you may exact payment, but you must remit what shall be owed to you with respect to your brother. 
4 Nevertheless, there shall not be among you a poor person, because Yahweh will certainly bless you in the land that Yahweh your God is giving to you as an inheritance, to take possession of it. 
5 If only you listen well to the voice of Yahweh your God by observing diligently all of these commandments that I am commanding you today. 
6 When Yahweh your God has blessed you, just as he promised to you, then you will lend to many nations, but you will not borrow from them, and you will rule over many nations, but they will not rule over you. 
7 If there is a poor person among you from among one of your brothers in one of your towns that Yahweh your God is giving to you, you shall not harden your heart, and you shall not shut your hand toward your brother who is poor. 
8 But you shall certainly open your hand for him, and you shall willingly lend to him enough to meet his need, whatever it is. 
9 Take care so that there will not be a thought of wickedness in your heart, saying, 'The seventh year, the year of the remission of debt is near,' and you view your needy neighbor with hostility, and so you do not give to him, and he might cry out against you to Yahweh, and you would incur guilt against yourself. 
10 By all means you must give to him, and you must not be discontented at your giving to him, because on account of this very thing, Yahweh your God will bless you in all your work and in all that you undertake. 
11 For the poor will not cease to be among you in the land; therefore I am commanding you, saying, 'You shall willingly open your hand to your brother, to your needy and to your poor that are in your land.'
12 If your relative who is a Hebrew man or a Hebrew woman is sold to you, and he or she has served you six years, then in the seventh year you shall send that person out free. 
13 And when you send him out free from you, you shall not send him away empty-handed. 
14 You shall generously supply him from among your flocks and from your threshing floor and from your press; according to that with which Yahweh your God has blessed you, you shall give to him. 
15 And remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and Yahweh your God redeemed you; therefore I am commanding you thus today. 
16 And then if it will happen that he says to you, 'I do not want to go out from you,' because he loves you and your family, because it is good for him to be with you; 
17 then you shall take an awl, and you shall thrust it through his earlobe and into the door, and he shall be to you a slave forever; and you shall also do likewise for your slave woman. 
18 It shall not be hard in your eyes when you send him forth free, because for six years he has served you worth twice the wage of a hired worker; and Yahweh your God will bless you in whatever you will do.
19 "Every firstling male that is born of your herd and of your flock you shall consecrate to Yahweh your God; you shall not do work with the firstling of your ox, and you shall not shear the firstling of your flock. 
20 Rather before Yahweh your God you shall eat it year by year at the place Yahweh will choose, you and your household. 
21 But if there is a physical defect in it, such as lameness or blindness, any serious defect, you shall not sacrifice it to Yahweh your God. 
22 In your towns you shall eat it, the unclean and the clean together may eat it, just as they eat the gazelle and as they eat the deer. 
23 But you shall not eat its blood; you shall pour it on the ground like water."