1 "And then when all of these things come upon you, the blessing and the curse that I have set before you and you call them to mind among the nations there where Yahweh your God has scattered you, 
2 and you return to Yahweh and you listen to his voice according to all that I am commanding you today, both you and your children, with all your heart and with all your inner self, 
3 and Yahweh your God will restore your fortunes, and he will have compassion upon you, and he will again gather you together from all the peoples where Yahweh your God scattered you there.
4 "Even if you are outcasts at the end of the heavens, even from there Yahweh your God shall gather you, and from there he shall bring you back. 
5 And Yahweh your God will bring you to the land that your ancestors had taken possession of, and he will make you successful, and he will make you more numerous than your ancestors.
6 "And Yahweh your God will circumcise your heart and the heart of your offspring to love Yahweh your God with all your heart and with all your inner self so that you may live. 
7 And Yahweh your God will put all these curses on your enemies and on those who hate you, on those who harassed you. 
8 And you will again listen to the voice of Yahweh, and you will do all his commandments that I am commanding you today. 
9 And Yahweh your God will make you prosperous in all your undertakings, and in the fruit of your livestock and in the fruit of your ground abundantly, for Yahweh will again rejoice over you, just as he rejoiced over your ancestors. 
10 He will do this if you listen to the voice of Yahweh your God by keeping his commandment and his statutes written in the scroll of this law and if you return to Yahweh your God with all your heart and with all your inner self.
11 "For this commandment that I am commanding you today is not too wonderful for you, and it is not too far from you. 
12 It is not in the heavens so that you might say, 'Who will go up for us to the heavens and get it for us and cause us to hear it, so that we may do it?' 
13 And it is not beyond the sea, so that you might say, 'Who will cross for us to the other side of the sea and take it for us and cause us to hear it, so that we may do it?' 
14 But the word is very near you, even in your mouth and in your heart, so that you may do it.
15 "See, I am setting before you today life and prosperity and death and disaster; 
16 what I am commanding you today is to love Yahweh your God by going in his ways and by keeping his commandments and his statutes and his regulations, and then you will live, and you will become numerous, and Yahweh your God will bless you in the land where you are going. 
17 However, if your heart turns aside and you do not listen and you are lured away and you bow down to other gods and you serve them, 
18 I declare to you today that you will certainly perish; you will not extend your time on the land that you are crossing the Jordan to go there to take possession of it. 
19 I invoke as a witness against you today the heaven and the earth: life and death I have set before you, blessing and curse. So choose life, so that you may live, you and your offspring, 
20 by loving Yahweh your God by listening to his voice and by clinging to him, for he is your life and the length of your days in order for you to live on the land that Yahweh swore to your ancestors, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give to them."