1 Is not wisdom crying out, and the voice of knowledge sounding?
2 At the top of the highways, at the meeting of the roads, she takes her place;
3 Where the roads go into the town her cry goes out, at the doorways her voice is loud:
4 I am crying out to you, O men; my voice comes to the sons of men.
5 Become expert in reason, O you simple ones; you foolish ones, take training to heart.
6 Give ear, for my words are true, and my lips are open to give out what is upright.
7 For good faith goes out of my mouth, and false lips are disgusting to me.
8 All the words of my mouth are righteousness; there is nothing false or twisted in them.
9 They are all true to him whose mind is awake, and straightforward to those who get knowledge.
10 Take my teaching, and not silver; get knowledge in place of the best gold.
11 For wisdom is better than jewels, and all things which may be desired are nothing in comparison with her.
12 I, wisdom, have made wise behaviour my near relation; I am seen to be the special friend of wise purposes.
13 The fear of the Lord is seen in hating evil: pride, a high opinion of oneself, the evil way, and the false tongue, are unpleasing to me.
14 Wise design and good sense are mine; reason and strength are mine.
15 Through me kings have their power, and rulers give right decisions.
16 Through me chiefs have authority, and the noble ones are judging in righteousness.
17 Those who have given me their love are loved by me, and those who make search for me with care will get me.
18 Wealth and honour are in my hands, even wealth without equal and righteousness.
19 My fruit is better than gold, even than the best gold; and my increase is more to be desired than silver.
20 I go in the road of righteousness, in the way of right judging:
21 So that I may give my lovers wealth for their heritage, making their store-houses full.
22 The Lord made me as the start of his way, the first of his works in the past.
23 From eternal days I was given my place, from the birth of time, before the earth was.
24 When there was no deep I was given birth, when there were no fountains flowing with water.
25 Before the mountains were put in their places, before the hills was my birth:
26 When he had not made the earth or the fields or the dust of the world.
27 When he made ready the heavens I was there: when he put an arch over the face of the deep:
28 When he made strong the skies overhead: when the fountains of the deep were fixed:
29 When he put a limit to the sea, so that the waters might not go against his word: when he put in position the bases of the earth:
30 Then I was by his side, as a master workman: and I was his delight from day to day, playing before him at all times;
31 Playing in his earth; and my delight was with the sons of men.
32 Give ear to me then, my sons: for happy are those who keep my ways.
33 Take my teaching and be wise; do not let it go.
34 Happy is the man who gives ear to me, watching at my doors day by day, keeping his place by the pillars of my house.
35 For whoever gets me gets life, and grace from the Lord will come to him.
36 But he who does evil to me, does wrong to his soul: all my haters are in love with death.
