1 He who keeps himself separate for his private purpose goes against all good sense.
2 A foolish man has no pleasure in good sense, but only to let what is in his heart come to light.
3 When the evil-doer comes, a low opinion comes with him, and with the loss of honour comes shame.
4 The words of a man's mouth are like deep waters: the fountain of wisdom is like a flowing stream.
5 To have respect for the person of the evil-doer is not good, or to give a wrong decision against the upright.
6 A foolish man's lips are a cause of fighting, and his mouth makes him open to blows.
7 The mouth of a foolish man is his destruction, and his lips are a net for his soul.
8 The words of one who says evil of his neighbour secretly are like sweet food, and go down into the inner parts of the stomach.
9 He who does not give his mind to his work is brother to him who makes destruction.
10 The name of the Lord is a strong tower: the upright man running into it is safe.
11 The property of a man of wealth is his strong town, and it is as a high wall in the thoughts of his heart.
12 Before destruction the heart of man is full of pride, and before honour goes a gentle spirit.
13 To give an answer before hearing is a foolish thing and a cause of shame.
14 The spirit of a man will be his support when he is ill; but how may a broken spirit be lifted up?
15 The heart of the man of good sense gets knowledge; the ear of the wise is searching for knowledge.
16 A man's offering makes room for him, letting him come before great men.
17 The man who first puts his cause before the judge seems to be in the right; but then his neighbour comes and puts his cause in its true light.
18 The decision of chance puts an end to argument, parting the strong.
19 A brother wounded is like a strong town, and violent acts are like a locked tower.
20 With the fruit of a man's mouth his stomach will be full; the produce of his lips will be his in full measure.
21 Death and life are in the power of the tongue; and those to whom it is dear will have its fruit for their food.
22 Whoever gets a wife gets a good thing, and has the approval of the Lord.
23 The poor man makes requests for grace, but the man of wealth gives a rough answer.
24 There are friends who may be a man's destruction, but there is a lover who keeps nearer than a brother.
