1 I saw my Lord standing by the altar and he said, "Strike the capitals so that the thresholds will shake, and shatter them on the head of all of them, and I will kill the rest of them with the sword. A fugitive belonging to them will not run away, and a survivor belonging to them will not escape. 
2 If they dig into Sheol, from there my hand will take them, and even if they climb up to heaven, from there I will bring them down. 
3 And even if they hide themselves on the top of Carmel, from there I will search and will take them, and even if they hide from before my eyes at the bottom of the sea, from there I will command the sea serpent and it will bite them. 
4 And even if they go into captivity before their enemies, from there I will command the sword and it will kill them, and I will fix my eyes on them for harm and not for good." 
5 And thus will do the Lord Yahweh of hosts, who touches the earth and it melts, and all of those living in it mourn, and all of it rises like the Nile and it sinks down like the Nile of Egypt, 
6 who builds his upper chambers in the heavens and lays the foundation of his vault on the earth, who calls for the waters of the sea and pours them on the surface of the earth—Yahweh is his name. 
7 "Are you not like the Cushites to me, O people of Israel?" declares Yahweh. "Did I not bring up Israel from the land of Egypt and the Philistines from Caphtor and the Arameans from Kir? 
8 Look, the eyes of my Lord Yahweh are on the kingdom of sin, and I will destroy it from the surface of the earth. However, I will not utterly destroy the house of Jacob," declares Yahweh. 
9 "Yes, look, I am going to command and I will shake the house of Israel among all the nations like one who shakes with a sieve, but not a pebble will fall to the ground. 
10 All the sinners of my people will die by the sword, who say, 'Evil will not overtake or confront us.'
11 On that day I will raise up the booth of David that is fallen, and I will repair its breaches and will raise up its ruins and will build it like the days of old. 
12 Thus they may take possession of the remnant of Edom and all the nations who are called by my name," declares Yahweh, who does this. 
13 "Look, days are coming," declares Yahweh, "when the one who plows will overtake the one who reaps, the one who treads grapes will catch up with the one who sows the seed. And the mountains will drip sweet wine and all of the hills will flow with it. 
14 And I will restore the fortunes of my people Israel, and they will rebuild the desolated cities and will inhabit them. And they will plant vineyards and will drink their wine, and they will make gardens and will eat their fruit. 
15 And I will plant them on their land and they will not be uprooted again from their land that I have given to them," says Yahweh your God.