1 And Jehovah said to Moses, Depart, go up hence, thou and the people that thou hast brought up out of the land of Egypt, into the land that I swore unto Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, saying, Unto thy seed will I give it,
2 (and I will send an angel before thee, and dispossess the Canaanite, the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite,)
3 into a land flowing with milk and honey; for I will not go up in the midst of thee, for thou art a stiff-necked people,—lest I consume thee on the way.
4 And when the people heard this evil word, they mourned; and no man put on his ornaments.
5 Now Jehovah had said to Moses, Say unto the children of Israel, Ye are a stiff-necked people: in one moment I will come up into the midst of thee and will consume thee. And now put off thine ornaments from thee, and I will know what I will do unto thee.
6 And the children of Israel stripped themselves of their ornaments at mount Horeb.
7 And Moses took the tent, and pitched it outside the camp, far from the camp, and called it the Tent of meeting. And it came to pass  every one who sought Jehovah went out to the tent of meeting which was outside the camp.
8 And it came to pass, when Moses went out to the tent, all the people rose up, and stood every man at the entrance of his tent, and they looked after Moses until he entered into the tent.
9 And it came to pass when Moses entered into the tent, the pillar of cloud descended, and stood at the entrance of the tent, and  talked with Moses.
10 And all the people saw the pillar of cloud standing at the entrance of the tent; and all the people rose and worshipped, every man at the entrance of his tent.
11 And Jehovah spoke with Moses face to face, as a man speaks with his friend. And he returned to the camp; but his attendant, Joshua the son of Nun, a young man, departed not from within the tent.
12 And Moses said to Jehovah, Behold, thou sayest unto me, Bring up this people; but thou dost not let me know whom thou wilt send with me; and thou hast said, I know thee by name, and thou hast also found grace in mine eyes.
13 And now, if indeed I have found grace in thine eyes, make me now to know thy way, that I may know thee, that I may find grace in thine eyes; and consider that this nation is thy people!
14 And he said, My presence shall go, and I will give thee rest.
15 And he said to him, If thy presence do not go, bring us not up hence.
16 And how shall it be known then that I have found grace in thine eyes—I and thy people? [Is it] not by thy going with us? so shall we be distinguished, I and thy people, from every people that is on the face of the earth.
17 And Jehovah said to Moses, I will do this thing also that thou hast said; for thou hast found grace in mine eyes, and I know thee by name.
18 And he said, Let me, I pray thee, see thy glory.
19 And he said, I will make all my goodness pass before thy face, and I will proclaim the name of Jehovah before thee; and I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and I will shew mercy on whom I will shew mercy.
20 And he said, Thou canst not see my face; for Man shall not see me, and live.
21 And Jehovah said, Behold, [there is] a place by me: there shalt thou stand on the rock.
22 And it shall come to pass, when my glory passeth by, that I will put thee in a cleft of the rock, and will cover thee with my hand, until I have passed by.
23 And I will take away my hand, and thou shalt see me from behind; but my face shall not be seen.