1 And thou shalt make the altar of acacia-wood, five cubits the length, and five cubits the breadth; the altar shall be square; and the height thereof three cubits.
2 And thou shalt make its horns at the four corners thereof; its horns shall be of itself; and thou shalt overlay it with copper.
3 And thou shalt make its pots to cleanse it of the fat, its shovels, and its bowls, and its forks, and its firepans; for all the utensils thereof thou shalt employ copper.
4 And thou shalt make for it a grating of network of copper; and on the net shalt thou make four copper rings at its four corners;
5 and thou shalt put it under the ledge of the altar beneath, and the net shall be to the very middle of the altar.
6 And thou shalt make staves for the altar, staves of acacia-wood, and overlay them with copper.
7 And its staves shall be put into the rings, that the staves may be on both sides of the altar, when it is carried.
8 Hollow with boards shalt thou make it: as it hath been shewn thee on the mountain, so shall they make .
9 And thou shalt make the court of the tabernacle. On the south side, southward, hangings for the court of twined byssus; a hundred cubits the length for the one side,
10 and the twenty pillars thereof, and their twenty bases of copper, the hooks of the pillars and their connecting-rods of silver.
11 And likewise on the north side in length, hangings a hundred  long, and its twenty pillars, and their twenty bases of copper; the hooks of the pillars and their connecting-rods of silver.
12 —And the breadth of the court on the west side, hangings of fifty cubits; their pillars ten, and their bases ten.
13 —And the breadth of the court on the east side, eastward, fifty cubits;
14 the hangings on the one wing, of fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their bases three.
15 And on the other wing hangings of fifteen ; their pillars three, and their bases three.
16 —And for the gate of the court a curtain of twenty cubits, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and twined byssus, embroidered with needlework; their pillars four, and their bases four.
17 All the pillars of the court round about shall be fastened together with [rods of] silver; their hooks of silver, and their bases of copper.
18 The length of the court shall be a hundred cubits, and the breadth fifty everywhere, and the height five cubits of twined byssus; and their bases of copper.
19 All the utensils of the tabernacle for the service thereof and all the pegs thereof, and all the pegs of the court shall be of copper.
20 And thou shalt command the children of Israel, that they bring thee olive oil, pure, beaten, for the light, to light the lamp continually.
21 In the tent of meeting outside the veil, which is before the testimony, Aaron and his sons shall dress them from evening to morning before Jehovah: [it is] an everlasting statute, for their generations, on the part of the children of Israel.