1 And he said to Moses, Go up to Jehovah, thou and Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel; and worship afar off.
2 And let Moses alone come near Jehovah; but they shall not come near; neither shall the people go up with him.
3 And Moses came and told the people all the words of Jehovah, and all the judgments; and all the people answered with one voice, and said, All the words that Jehovah has said will we do!
4 And Moses wrote all the words of Jehovah, and rose up early in the morning, and built an altar under the mountain, and twelve pillars, according to the twelve tribes of Israel.
5 And he sent the youths of the children of Israel, and they offered up burnt-offerings, and sacrificed sacrifices of peace-offering of bullocks to Jehovah.
6 And Moses took half the blood, and put  in basons; and half of the blood he sprinkled on the altar.
7 And he took the book of the covenant, and read  in the ears of the people; and they said, All that Jehovah has said will we do, and obey!
8 And Moses took the blood, and sprinkled  on the people, and said, Behold the blood of the covenant that Jehovah has made with you concerning all these words.
9 And Moses and Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel went up;
10 and they saw the God of Israel; and there was under his feet as it were work of transparent sapphire, and as it were the form of heaven for clearness.
11 And on the nobles of the children of Israel he laid not his hand: they saw God, and ate and drank.
12 And Jehovah said to Moses, Come up to me into the mountain, and be there; and I will give thee the tables of stone, and the law, and the commandment that I have written, for their instruction.
13 And Moses rose up, and Joshua his attendant; and Moses went up to the mountain of God.
14 And he said to the elders, Wait here for us, until we return to you; and behold, Aaron and Hur are with you: if any man have any matter, let him come before them.
15 And Moses went up to the mountain, and the cloud covered the mountain.
16 And the glory of Jehovah abode on mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it six days; and on the seventh day he called to Moses out of the midst of the cloud.
17 And the appearance of the glory of Jehovah was like a consuming fire on the top of the mountain, before the eyes of the children of Israel.
18 And Moses went into the midst of the cloud, and ascended the mountain. And Moses was on the mountain forty days and forty nights.