1 [Aleph.] O the happiness of those perfect in the way, They are walking in the law of Jehovah,
2 O the happiness of those keeping His testimonies, With the whole heart they seek Him.
3 Yea, they have not done iniquity, In His ways they have walked.
4 Thou hast commanded us Thy precepts to keep diligently,
5 O that my ways were prepared to keep Thy statutes,
6 Then I am not ashamed In my looking unto all Thy commands.
7 I confess Thee with uprightness of heart, In my learning the judgments of Thy righteousness.
8 Thy statutes I keep, leave me not utterly!
9 [Beth.] With what doth a young man purify his path? To observe -- according to Thy word.
10 With all my heart I have sought Thee, Let me not err from Thy commands.
11 In my heart I have hid Thy saying, That I sin not before Thee.
12 Blessed  Thou, O Jehovah, teach me Thy statutes.
13 With my lips I have recounted All the judgments of Thy mouth.
14 In the way of Thy testimonies I have joyed, As over all wealth.
15 In Thy precepts I meditate, And I behold attentively Thy paths.
16 In Thy statutes I delight myself, I do not forget Thy word.
17 [Gimel.] Confer benefits on Thy servant, I live, and I keep Thy word.
18 Uncover mine eyes, and I behold wonders out of Thy law.
19 A sojourner I  on earth, Hide not from me Thy commands.
20 Broken hath my soul for desire Unto Thy judgments at all times.
21 Thou hast rebuked the cursed proud, Who are erring from Thy commands.
22 Remove from me reproach and contempt, For Thy testimonies I have kept.
23 Princes also sat -- against me they spoke, Thy servant doth meditate in Thy statutes,
24 Thy testimonies also  my delight, The men of my counsel!
25 [Daleth.] Cleaved to the dust hath my soul, Quicken me according to Thy word.
26 My ways I have recounted, And Thou answerest me, teach me Thy statutes,
27 The way of Thy precepts cause me to understand, And I meditate in Thy wonders.
28 My soul hath dropped from affliction, Establish me according to Thy word.
29 The way of falsehood turn aside from me And with Thy law favour me.
30 The way of faithfulness I have chosen, Thy judgments I have compared,
31 I have adhered to Thy testimonies, O Jehovah, put me not to shame.
32 The way of Thy commands I run, For Thou dost enlarge my heart!
33 [He.] Show me, O Jehovah, the way of Thy statutes, And I keep it --  the end.
34 Cause me to understand, and I keep Thy law, And observe it with the whole heart.
35 Cause me to tread in the path of Thy commands, For in it I have delighted.
36 Incline my heart unto Thy testimonies, And not unto dishonest gain.
37 Remove mine eyes from seeing vanity, In Thy way quicken Thou me.
38 Establish to Thy servant Thy saying, That  concerning Thy fear.
39 Remove my reproach that I have feared, For Thy judgments  good.
40 Lo, I have longed for Thy precepts, In Thy righteousness quicken Thou me,
41 [Waw.] And meet me doth Thy kindness, O Jehovah, Thy salvation according to Thy saying.
42 And I answer him who is reproaching me a word, For I have trusted in Thy word.
43 And Thou takest not utterly away From my mouth the word of truth, Because for Thy judgment I have hoped.
44 And I keep Thy law continually, To the age and for ever.
45 And I walk habitually in a broad place, For Thy precepts I have sought.
46 And I speak of Thy testimonies before kings, And I am not ashamed.
47 And I delight myself in Thy commands, That I have loved,
48 And I lift up my hands unto Thy commands, That I have loved, And I do meditate on Thy statutes!
49 [Zain.] Remember the word to Thy servant, On which Thou hast caused me to hope.
50 This  my comfort in mine affliction, That Thy saying hath quickened me.
51 The proud have utterly scorned me, From Thy law I have not turned aside.
52 I remembered Thy judgments of old, O Jehovah, And I comfort myself.
53 Horror hath seized me, Because of the wicked forsaking Thy law.
54 Songs have been to me Thy statutes, In the house of my sojournings.
55 I have remembered in the night Thy name, O Jehovah, And I do keep Thy law.
56 This hath been to me, That Thy precepts I have kept!
57 [Cheth.] My portion  Jehovah; I have said -- to keep Thy words,
58 I appeased Thy face with the whole heart, Favour me according to Thy saying.
59 I have reckoned my ways, And turn back my feet unto Thy testimonies.
60 I have made haste, And delayed not, to keep Thy commands.
61 Cords of the wicked have surrounded me, Thy law I have not forgotten.
62 At midnight I rise to give thanks to Thee, For the judgments of Thy righteousness.
63 A companion I  to all who fear Thee, And to those keeping Thy precepts.
64 Of Thy kindness, O Jehovah, the earth is full, Thy statutes teach Thou me!
65 [Teth.] Good Thou didst with Thy servant, O Jehovah, According to Thy word.
66 The goodness of reason and knowledge teach me, For in Thy commands I have believed.
67 Before I am afflicted, I -- I am erring, And now Thy saying I have kept.
68 Good Thou , and doing good, Teach me Thy statutes.
69 Forged against me falsehood have the proud, I with the whole heart keep Thy precepts.
70 Insensate as fat hath been their heart, I -- in Thy law I have delighted.
71 Good for me that I have been afflicted, That I might learn Thy statutes.
72 Better to me  the law of Thy mouth Than thousands of gold and silver!
73 [Yod.] Thy hands made me and establish me, Cause me to understand, and I learn Thy commands.
74 Those fearing Thee see me and rejoice, Because for Thy word I have hoped.
75 I have known, O Jehovah, That righteous  Thy judgments, And  faithfulness Thou hast afflicted me.
76 Let, I pray Thee, Thy kindness be to comfort me, According to Thy saying to Thy servant.
77 Meet me do Thy mercies, and I live, For Thy law  my delight.
78 Ashamed are the proud, For  falsehood they dealt perversely with me. I meditate in Thy precepts.
79 Those fearing Thee turn back to me, And those knowing Thy testimonies.
80 My heart is perfect in Thy statutes, So that I am not ashamed.
81 [Kaph.] Consumed for Thy salvation hath been my soul, For Thy word I have hoped.
82 Consumed have been mine eyes for Thy word, Saying, `When doth it comfort me?'
83 For I have been as a bottle in smoke, Thy statutes I have not forgotten.
84 How many  the days of Thy servant? When dost Thou execute Against my pursuers judgment?
85 The proud have digged for me pits, That  not according to Thy law.
86 All Thy commands  faithfulness,  falsehood they have pursued me, Help Thou me.
87 Almost consumed me on earth have they, And I -- I have not forsaken Thy precepts.
88 According to Thy kindness quicken Thou me, And I keep the testimony of Thy mouth!
89 [Lamed.] To the age, O Jehovah, Thy word is set up in the heavens.
90 To all generations Thy faithfulness, Thou didst establish earth, and it standeth.
91 According to Thine ordinances They have stood this day, for the whole  Thy servants.
92 Unless Thy law  my delights, Then had I perished in mine affliction.
93 To the age I forget not Thy precepts, For by them Thou hast quickened me.
94 I  Thine, save Thou me, For Thy precepts I have sought.
95 Thy wicked waited for me to destroy me, Thy testimonies I understand.
96 Of all perfection I have seen an end, Broad  Thy command -- exceedingly!
97 [Mem.] O how I have loved Thy law! All the day it  my meditation.
98 Than mine enemies Thy command maketh me wiser, For it  before me to the age.
99 Above all my teachers I have acted wisely. For Thy testimonies  my meditation.
100 Above elders I understand more, For Thy precepts I have kept.
101 From every evil path I restrained my feet, So that I keep Thy word.
102 From Thy judgments I turned not aside, For Thou -- Thou hast directed me.
103 How sweet to my palate hath been Thy saying, Above honey to my mouth.
104 From Thy precepts I have understanding, Therefore I have hated every false path!
105 [Nun.] A lamp to my foot  Thy word, And a light to my path.
106 I have sworn, and I confirm , To keep the judgments of Thy righteousness.
107 I have been afflicted very much, O Jehovah, quicken me, according to Thy word.
108 Free-will-offerings of my mouth, Accept, I pray Thee, O Jehovah, And Thy judgments teach Thou me.
109 My soul  in my hand continually, And Thy law I have not forgotten.
110 The wicked have laid a snare for me, And from thy precepts I wandered not.
111 I have inherited Thy testimonies to the age, For the joy of my heart  they.
112 I have inclined my heart To do Thy statutes, to the age --  the end!
113 [Samech.] Doubting ones I have hated, And Thy law I have loved.
114 My hiding place and my shield  Thou, For Thy word I have hoped.
115 Turn aside from me, ye evil-doers, And I keep the commands of my God.
116 Sustain me according to Thy saying, And I live, and Thou puttest me not to shame Because of my hope.
117 Support Thou me, and I am saved, And I look on Thy statutes continually.
118 Thou hast trodden down All going astray from Thy statutes, For falsehood  their deceit.
119 Dross! Thou hast caused to cease All the wicked of the earth; Therefore I have loved Thy testimonies.
120 Trembled from Thy fear hath my flesh, And from Thy judgments I have been afraid!
121 [Ain.] I have done judgment and righteousness, Leave me not to mine oppressors.
122 Make sure Thy servant for good, Let not the proud oppress me.
123 Mine eyes have been consumed for Thy salvation. And for the saying of Thy righteousness.
124 Do with Thy servant according to Thy kindness. And Thy statutes teach Thou me.
125 Thy servant  I -- cause me to understand, And I know Thy testimonies.
126 Time for Jehovah to work! they have made void Thy law.
127 Therefore I have loved Thy commands Above gold -- even fine gold.
128 Therefore all my appointments I have declared wholly right, Every path of falsehood I have hated!
129 [Pe.] Wonderful  Thy testimonies, Therefore hath my soul kept them.
130 The opening of Thy words enlighteneth, Instructing the simple.
131 My mouth I have opened, yea, I pant, For, for Thy commands I have longed.
132 Look unto me, and favour me, As customary to those loving Thy name.
133 My steps establish by Thy saying, And any iniquity doth not rule over me.
134 Ransom me from the oppression of man, And I observe Thy precepts,
135 Thy face cause to shine on Thy servant, And teach me Thy statutes.
136 Rivulets of waters have come down mine eyes, Because they have not kept Thy law!
137 [Tzade.] Righteous  Thou, O Jehovah, And upright  Thy judgments.
138 Thou hast appointed Thy testimonies, Righteous and exceeding faithful,
139 Cut me off hath my zeal, For mine adversaries forgot Thy words.
140 Tried  thy saying exceedingly, And Thy servant hath loved it.
141 Small I , and despised, Thy precepts I have not forgotten.
142 Thy righteousness  righteousness to the age, And Thy law  truth.
143 Adversity and distress have found me, Thy commands  my delights.
144 The righteousness of Thy testimonies  to Cause me to understand, and I live!
145 [Koph.] I have called with the whole heart, Answer me, O Jehovah, Thy statutes I keep,
146 I have called Thee, save Thou me, And I do keep Thy testimonies.
147 I have gone forward in the dawn, and I cry, For Thy word I have hoped.
148 Mine eyes have gone before the watches, To meditate in Thy saying.
149 My voice hear, according to Thy kindness, Jehovah, according to Thy judgment quicken me.
150 Near have been my wicked pursuers, From Thy law they have been far off.
151 Near  Thou, O Jehovah, And all Thy commands  truth.
152 Of old I have known Thy testimonies, That to the age Thou hast founded them!
153 [Resh.] See my affliction, and deliver Thou me, For Thy law I have not forgotten.
154 Plead my plea, and redeem me, According to Thy saying quicken me.
155 Far from the wicked  salvation, For Thy statutes they have not sought.
156 Thy mercies  many, O Jehovah, According to Thy judgments quicken me.
157 Many  my pursuers, and adversaries, From Thy testimonies I have not turned aside.
158 I have seen treacherous ones, And grieve myself, Because Thy saying they have not kept.
159 See, for thy precepts I have loved, Jehovah, According to Thy kindness quicken me.
160 The sum of Thy word  truth, And to the age  every judgment of Thy righteousness!
161 [Shin.] Princes have pursued me without cause, And because of Thy words was my heart afraid.
162 I do rejoice concerning Thy saying, As one finding abundant spoil.
163 Falsehood I have hated, yea I abominate , Thy law I have loved.
164 Seven  in a day I have praised Thee, Because of the judgments of Thy righteousness.
165 Abundant peace have those loving Thy law, And they have no stumbling-block.
166 I have waited for Thy salvation, O Jehovah, And Thy commands I have done.
167 Kept hath my soul Thy testimonies, And I do love them exceedingly.
168 I have kept Thy precepts and Thy testimonies, For all my ways are before Thee!
169 [Taw.] My loud cry cometh near before Thee, O Jehovah; According to Thy word cause me to understand.
170 My supplication cometh in before Thee, According to Thy saying deliver Thou me.
171 My lips do utter praise, For Thou dost teach me Thy statutes.
172 My tongue doth sing of Thy saying, For all Thy commands  righteous.
173 Thy hand is for a help to me, For Thy commands I have chosen.
174 I have longed for Thy salvation, O Jehovah, And Thy law  my delight.
175 My soul liveth, and it doth praise Thee, And Thy judgments do help me.
176 I wandered as a lost sheep, seek Thy servant, For Thy precepts I have not forgotten!