1 Then David spoke to Yahweh the words of this song, on the day Yahweh delivered him from the hand of all his enemies and from the hand of Saul.
2 And he said: "Yahweh is my rock, my fortress, and my deliverer.
3 I take refuge in God, my rock, my shield, and the strength of my salvation. My stronghold and my refuge, O my savior, you will save me from violence!
4 I call upon Yahweh who is praiseworthy, and I am saved from those who hate me.
5 For the breaker waves of death engulfed me; the currents of chaos overwhelmed me.
6 The ropes of Sheol entangled me; the snares of death confronted me.
7 In my distress I called upon Yahweh, and to my God I called. He heard my voice from his temple, and my cry for help was to his ears.
8 The earth heaved and shook, the foundations of heaven trembled and heaved because he was angry.
9 Smoke went up from his nostrils and fire from his mouth. Burning coals devoured, they burned from him.
10 He bowed the heavens and came down; a very thick cloud was under his feet.
11 He rode upon a cherub and flew; he was seen on the wings of the wind.
12 He put darkness as a canopy all around him, a collection of thick rain clouds.
13 From the brightness before him flamed burning coals of fire.
14 Yahweh thundered from heaven, and the Most High uttered his voice.
15 He sent arrows and he scattered them, lightning, and he directed them.
16 Then the channels of water of the sea were exposed, the foundations of the world, at the rebuke of Yawheh, from the blast of the breath of his nostrils.
17 He sent from a high position and took me; he drew me from mighty waters.
18 He delivered me from my strong enemies, from those who hate me, for they were mightier than I.
19 They approached me on the day of my disaster, but Yahweh was my support.
20 He brought me out to a spacious place. He delivered me because he delighted in me.
21 Yahweh rewarded me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands he recompensed me.
22 For I have kept the ways of Yahweh; I have not acted wickedly against my God.
23 For all of his ordinances were before me, and I did not turn aside from his statutes.
24 I was blameless before him, and I kept myself from my iniquity.
25 Yahweh has recompensed me according to my righteousness, according to my cleanness before his eyes.
26 With the loyal, you act as loyal, and with the blameless, you show yourself blameless.
27 With the pure, you show yourself pure, but with the crooked, you appear as a fool.
28 Humble people you will deliver, but your eyes are on the haughty, whom you bring down.
29 For you, O Yahweh are my lamp, and Yahweh lightens my darkness.
30 For by you I can run a raid; by my God I can leap over a wall.
31 This God, his way is blameless; the promise of Yahweh is flawless. He is a shield to all who take refuge in him.
32 For who is God apart from Yahweh? And who is a rock apart from our God?
33 God is my strong refuge, he has fully opened my way.
34 He makes my feet like a doe deer, and on my high places he has set me.
35 He trains my hands for the war, so that my arms can bend a bow of bronze.
36 You have given me the shield of your salvation; your willingness to help has made me great.
37 You have broadened my steps beneath me; my ankles have not wobbled.
38 I pursued those who hate me, and I destroyed them. I did not turn back until finishing them.
39 I wiped them out and I smashed them; they did not get up; they fell under my feet.
40 You have girded me with physical strength for the battle; you caused those who rose up against me to kneel under me.
41 My enemies you cause to retreat from me; I destroy those who hate me.
42 They looked out, but there was no deliverer, even to Yahweh, but he did not answer them.
43 I beat them fine, like the dust of the earth; like the mire of the streets, I crushed them, I stamped them down.
44 You delivered me from the strife of my people; you preserved me as the head of the nations. A people I had not known served me.
45 Children of a foreign land came cringing to me; when they heard of me, they became obedient to me.
46 Children of a foreign land lost heart and came trembling from their strongholds.
47 Yahweh lives! Blessed be my rock! May God, the rock of my salvation, be exalted!
48 God does vengeance for me, bringing down peoples under me.
49 He brings me out from my enemies, and from those who rose up against me you lift me up, and from men of violence you rescue me.
50 Therefore I will extol you, Yahweh, among the nations! I will sing praises to your name!
51 He makes great salvation for his king and shows loyal love to his anointed one, David and to his descendants forever."