1 For David himself. Bless the Lord, O my soul: O Lord my God, thou art exceedingly great. Thou hast put on praise and beauty:
2 And art clothed with light as with a garment. Who stretchest out the heaven like a pavilion:
3 Who coverest the higher rooms thereof with water. Who makest the clouds thy chariot: who walkest upon the wings of the winds.
4 Who makest thy angels spirits: and thy ministers a burning fire.
5 Who hast founded the earth upon its own bases: it shall not be moved for ever and ever.
6 The deep like a garment is its clothing: above the mountains shall the waters stand.
7 At thy rebuke they shall flee: at the voice of thy thunder they shall fear.
8 The mountains ascend, and the plains descend into the place which thou hast founded for them.
9 Thou hast set a bound which they shall not pass over; neither shall they return to cover the earth.
10 Thou sendest forth springs in the vales: between the midst of the hills the waters shall pass.
11 All the beasts of the field shall drink: the wild asses shall expect in their thirst.
12 Over them the birds of the air shall dwell: from the midst of the rocks they shall give forth their voices.
13 Thou waterest the hills from thy upper rooms: the earth shall be filled with the fruit of thy works:
14 Bringing forth grass for cattle, and herb for the service of men. That thou mayst bring bread out of the earth:
15 And that wine may cheer the heart of man. That he may make the face cheerful with oil: and that bread may strengthen man's heart.
16 The trees of the field shall be filled, and the cedars of Libanus which he hath planted:
17 There the sparrows shall make their nests. The highest of them is the house of the heron.
18 The high hills are a refuge for the harts, the rock for the irchins.
19 He hath made the moon for seasons: the sun knoweth his going down.
20 Thou hast appointed darkness, and it is night: in it shall all the beasts of the woods go about:
21 The young lions roaring after their prey, and seeking their meat from God.
22 The sun ariseth, and they are gathered together: and they shall lie down in their dens.