1 Understanding for Asaph. Attend, O my people, to my law: incline your ears to the words of my mouth.
2 I will open my mouth in parables: I will utter propositions from the beginning.
3 How great things have we heard and known, and our fathers have told us.
4 They have not been hidden from their children, in another generation. Declaring the praises of the Lord, and his powers, and his wonders which he hath done.
5 And he set up a testimony in Jacob: and made a law in Israel. How great things he commanded our fathers, that they should make the same known to their children:
6 That another generation might know them. The children that should be born and should rise up, and declare them to their children.
7 That they may put their hope in God and may not forget the works of God: and may seek his commandments.
8 That they may not become like their fathers, a perverse and exasperating generation. A generation that set not their heart aright: and whose spirit was not faithful to God.
9 The sons of Ephraim who bend and shoot with the bow: they have turned back in the day of battle.
10 They kept not the covenant of God: and in his law they would not walk.
11 And they forgot his benefits, and his wonders that he had shewn them.
12 Wonderful things did he do in the sight of their fathers, in the land of Egypt, in the field of Tanis.
13 He divided the sea and brought them through: and he made the waters to stand as in a vessel.
14 And he conducted them with a cloud by day: and all the night with a light of fire.
15 He struck the rock in the wilderness: and gave them to drink, as out of the great deep.
16 He brought forth water out of the rock: and made streams run down as rivers.
17 And they added yet more sin against him: they provoked the most High to wrath in the place without water.
18 And they tempted God in their hearts, by asking meat for their desires.
19 And they spoke ill of God: they said: Can God furnish a table in the wilderness?
20 Because he struck the rock, and the waters gushed out, and the streams overflowed. Can he also give bread, or provide a table for his people?