1 For David himself. Judge thou, O Lord, them that wrong me: overthrow them that fight against me.
2 Take hold of arms and shield: and rise up to help me.
3 Bring out the sword, and shut up the way against them that persecute me: say to my soul: I am thy salvation.
4 Let them be confounded and ashamed that seek after my soul. Let them be turned back and be confounded that devise against me.
5 Let them become as dust before the wind: and let the angel of the Lord straiten them.
6 Let their way become dark and slippery; and let the angel of the Lord pursue them.
7 For without cause they have hidden their net for me unto destruction: without cause they have upbraided my soul.
8 Let the snare which he knoweth not come upon him: and let the net which he hath hidden catch him: and let the net which he hath hidden catch him: and into that very snare let them fall.
9 But my soul shall rejoice in the Lord; and shall be delighted in his salvation.
10 All my bones shall say: Lord, who is like to thee? Who deliverest the poor from the hand of them that are stronger than he; the needy and the poor from them that strip him.
11 Unjust witnesses rising up have asked me things I knew not.
12 They repaid me evil for good: to the depriving me of my soul.
13 But as for me, when they were troublesome to me, I was clothed with haircloth. I humbled my soul with fasting; and my prayer shall be turned into my bosom.
14 As a neighbour and as an own brother, so did I please: as one mourning and sorrowful so was I humbled.
15 But they rejoiced against me, and came together: scourges were gathered together upon me, and I knew not.
16 They were separated, and repented not: they tempted me, they scoffed at me with scorn: they gnashed upon me with their teeth.
17 Lord, when wilt thou look upon me? rescue thou soul from their malice: my only one from the lions.
18 I will give thanks to thee in a great church; I will praise thee in a strong people.
19 Let not them that are my enemies wrongfully rejoice over me: who have hated me without cause, and wink with the eyes.
20 For they spoke indeed peaceably to me; and speaking in the anger of the earth they devised guile.
21 And they opened their mouth wide against me; they said: Well done, well done, our eyes have seen it.
22 Thou hast seen, O Lord, be not thou silent: O Lord, depart not from me.