1 ALEPH. Blessed are the undefiled in the way, who walk in the law of the Lord.
2 Blessed are they who search his testimonies: that seek him with their whole heart.
3 For they that work iniquity, have not walked in his ways.
4 Thou hast commanded thy commandments to be kept most diligently.
5 O! that my ways may be directed to keep thy justifications.
6 Then shall I not be confounded, when I shall look into all thy commandments.
7 I will praise thee with uprightness of heart, when I shall have learned the judgments of thy justice.
8 I will keep thy justifications: O! do not thou utterly forsake me.
9 BETH. By what doth a young man correct his way? by observing thy words.
10 With my whole heart have I sought after thee: let me not stray from thy commandments.
11 Thy words have I hidden in my heart, that I may not sin against thee.
12 Blessed art thou, O Lord: teach me thy justifications.
13 With my lips I have pronounced all the judgments of thy mouth.
14 I have been delighted in the way of thy testimonies, as in all riches.
15 I will meditate on thy commandments: and I will consider thy ways.
16 I will think of thy justifications: I will not forget thy words.
17 GIMEL. Give bountifully to thy servant, enliven me: and I shall keep thy words.
18 Open thou my eyes: and I will consider the wondrous things of thy law.
19 I am a sojourner on the earth: hide not thy commandments from me.
20 My soul hath coveted to long for thy justifications, at all times.
21 Thou hast rebuked the proud: they are cursed who decline from thy commandments.
22 Remove from reproach and contempt: because I have sought after thy testimonies.
23 For princes sat, and spoke against me: but thy servant was employed in thy justifications.
24 For thy testimonies are my meditation: and thy justifications my counsel.
25 DALETH. My soul hath cleaved to the pavement: quicken thou me according to thy word.
26 I have declared my ways, and thou hast heard me: teach me thy justifications.
27 Make me to understand the way of thy justifications: and I shall be exercised in thy wondrous works.
28 My soul hath slumbered through heaviness: strengthen thou me in thy words.
29 Remove from me the way of iniquity: and out of thy law have mercy on me.