1 Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God, according to the promise of life which is in Christ Jesus, 
2 to Timothy, my dear child. Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
3 I am thankful to God, whom I have served with a clear conscience as my ancestors did, when I remember you constantly in my prayers night and day, 
4 longing to see you as I remember your tears, so that I may be filled with joy, 
5 remembering the sincere faith in you, which lived first in your grandmother Lois and your mother Eunice, and I am convinced that is in you also, 
6 for which reason I remind you to rekindle the gift of God that is in you through the laying on of my hands. 
7 For God has not given us a spirit of cowardice, but of power and love and self-discipline.
8 Therefore, do not be ashamed of the testimony about our Lord, nor me his prisoner, but suffer along with me for the gospel, according to the power of God, 
9 who saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works but according to his own purpose and grace that was given to us in Christ Jesus before time began, 
10 but has now been disclosed by the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ, who has abolished death and brought to light life and immortality through the gospel, 
11 for which I was appointed a proclaimer and an apostle and a teacher, 
12 for which reason also I suffer these things. But I am not ashamed, because I know in whom I have believed, and I am convinced that he is able to guard what I have entrusted until that day. 
13 Hold fast to the pattern of sound words which you heard from me, in the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus. 
14 Guard the good deposit through the Holy Spirit who lives in us.
15 You know this, that all those in Asia turned away from me, among whom are Phygelus and Hermogenes. 
16 May the Lord grant mercy to the household of Onesiphorus, because he refreshed me many times, and was not ashamed of my imprisonment, 
17 but when he was in Rome, he diligently sought me and found me. 
18 May the Lord grant him to find mercy from the Lord in that day! And how much he served me in Ephesus you know very well.