1 You, therefore, my child, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus, 
2 and the things which you have heard from me in the presence of many witnesses, entrust these things to faithful people who will be competent to teach others also. 
3 Suffer together with me as a good soldier of Christ Jesus. 
4 No one who serves as a soldier is entangled in the activities of everyday life, so that he may please the one who enlisted him. 
5 And also if anyone competes he is not crowned unless he competes according to the rules. 
6 The farmer who works hard must be the first to receive a share of the crops. 
7 Consider what I am saying, for the Lord will grant you understanding in all these things.
8 Remember Jesus Christ, raised from the dead, a descendant of David according to my gospel, 
9 in connection with which I suffer misfortune to the point of imprisonment as a criminal, but the word of God is not bound. 
10 Because of this, I endure all things for the sake of the chosen, in order that they also may obtain salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. 
11 The saying is trustworthy: For if we died with him, we will also live with him;
12 if we endure, we will also reign with him; if we deny him, he also will deny us;
13 if we are unfaithful, he remains faithful—he cannot deny himself.
14 Remind people of these things, solemnly urging them before the Lord not to dispute about words. This is in no way beneficial and leads to the ruin of the hearers. 
15 Make every effort to present yourself approved to God, a worker having no need to be ashamed, guiding the word of truth along a straight path. 
16 But avoid pointless chatter, for it will progress to greater ungodliness, 
17 and their message will spread like gangrene, among whom are Hymenaeus and Philetus, 
18 who have deviated concerning the truth by saying the resurrection has already taken place, and they are upsetting the faith of some. 
19 However, the solid foundation of God stands firm, having this seal: "The Lord knows those who are his," and "Everyone who names the name of the Lord must abstain from unrighteousness."
20 Now in a great house there are not only gold and silver vessels, but also wooden and earthenware ones, some of which are for honorable use, and some of which are for ordinary use. 
21 Therefore, if someone cleanses himself from these things, he will be a vessel for honorable use, set apart, useful to the Master, prepared for every good work.
22 But flee from youthful desires, and pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace, in company with those who call upon the Lord from a pure heart. 
23 But avoid foolish and uninformed controversies, because you know that they produce quarrels. 
24 And the slave of the Lord must not quarrel, but be kind toward everyone, skillful in teaching, tolerant, 
25 correcting those who are opposed with gentleness, seeing whether perhaps God may grant them repentance to a knowledge of the truth, 
26 and they will come to their senses again and escape from the trap of the devil, being held captive by him to do his will.