1 And after this it came to pass that David smote the Philistines, and subdued them, and took Gath and its towns out of the hand of the Philistines.
2 And he smote the Moabites; and the Moabites became David's servants,  brought gifts.
3 And David smote Hadarezer king of Zobah, at Hamath, as he went to establish his dominion by the river Euphrates.
4 And David took from him a thousand chariots, and seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen; and David houghed all the chariot , but reserved of them  a hundred chariots.
5 And the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadarezer king of Zobah, and David smote of the Syrians twenty-two thousand men.
6 And David put  in Syria of Damascus; and the Syrians became servants to David,  brought gifts. And Jehovah preserved David whithersoever he went.
7 And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadarezer, and brought them to Jerusalem.
8 And from Tibhath, and from Chun, cities of Hadarezer, David took very much brass, of which Solomon made the brazen sea, and the pillars, and the vessels of brass.
9 And Tou king of Hamath heard that David had smitten all the forces of Hadarezer king of Zobah;
10 and he sent Hadoram his son to king David to inquire of his welfare, and to congratulate him, because he had fought against Hadarezer and smitten him; for Hadarezer was continually at war with Tou; [he sent] also all manner of vessels of gold and silver and bronze.
11 Them also king David dedicated to Jehovah, with the silver and the gold that he had brought from all the nations: from the Edomites, and from the Moabites, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines, and from the Amalekites.
12 And Abishai the son of Zeruiah smote of the Edomites in the valley of salt eighteen thousand.
13 And he put garrisons in Edom; and all they of Edom became servants to David. And Jehovah preserved David whithersoever he went.
14 And David reigned over all Israel, and executed judgment and justice to all his people.
15 And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the host; and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was chronicler;
16 and Zadok the son of Ahitub, and Abimelech the son of Abiathar, were the priests; and Shavsha was scribe;
17 and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and the sons of David were the first at the king's hand.