1 And the sons of Issachar were Tola and Puah, Jashub and Shimron, four.
2 And the sons of Tola: Uzzi, and Rephaiah, and Jeriel, and Jahmai, and Jibsam, and Samuel, heads of their fathers' houses, of Tola, valiant men of might in their generations; their number in the days of David was twenty-two thousand six hundred.
3 And the sons of Uzzi: Jizrahiah; and the sons of Jizrahiah: Michael, and Obadiah, and Joel,  Jishijah, five; all of them chief men.
4 And with them by their generations, according to their fathers' houses, were military bands for war, thirty-six thousand; for they had many wives and sons.
5 And their brethren among all the families of Issachar valiant men of might, registered by genealogy, in all eighty-seven thousand.
6 [The sons of] Benjamin: Bela, and Becher, and Jediael, three.
7 And the sons of Bela: Ezbon, and Uzzi, and Uzziel, and Jerimoth, and Iri, five; heads of fathers' houses, mighty men of valour; and they were registered by their genealogy twenty-two thousand and thirty-four.
8 And the sons of Becher: Zemirah, and Joash, and Eliezer, and Elioenai, and Omri, and Jeremoth, and Abijah, and Anathoth, and Alemeth; all these were the sons of Becher.
9 And they were registered by their genealogy by their generations, heads of their fathers' houses, mighty men of valour, twenty thousand two hundred.
10 And the sons of Jediael: Bilhan; and the sons of Bilhan: Jeush, and Benjamin, and Ehud, and Chenaanah, and Zethan, and Tarshish, and Ahishahar.
11 All these were the sons of Jediael, by the heads of their fathers, mighty men of valour, seventeen thousand two hundred, fit for service for war.
12 And Shuppim, and Huppim, the children of Ir.—Hushim: the sons of Aher.
13 The sons of Naphtali: Jahziel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shallum, the sons of Bilhah.
14 The sons of Manasseh: Asriel, … whom she bore; his Syrian concubine bore Machir the father of Gilead.
15 And Machir took a wife [the sister] of Huppim and Shuppim, and the name of their sister was Maachah. And the name of the second  was Zelophehad; and Zelophehad had daughters.
16 And Maachah the wife of Machir bore a son, and she called his name Peresh; and the name of his brother was Sheresh; and his sons were Ulam and Rakem.
17 And the sons of Ulam: Bedan. These were the sons of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh.
18 And his sister Moleketh bore Ishhod, and Abiezer, and Mahlah.
19 And the sons of Shemidah were Ahian, and Shechem, and Likhi, and Aniam.
20 And the sons of Ephraim: Shuthelah, and Bered his son, and Tahath his son, and Eladah his son, and Tahath his son,
21 and Zabad his son, and Shuthelah his son, and Ezer, and Elad. And the men of Gath born in the land slew them, because they came down to take their cattle.
22 And Ephraim their father mourned many days, and his brethren came to comfort him.
23 And he went in to his wife; and she conceived, and bore a son; and he called his name Beriah, for [he was born] when calamity was in his house.
24 And his daughter was Sheerah; and she built Beth-horon the nether, and the upper, and Uzzen-sheerah.
25 And his son was Rephah, and Resheph, and Telah his son, and Tahan his son,
26 Laadan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son,
27 Nun his son, Joshua his son.
28 And their possession and dwelling-places were Bethel and its dependent villages, and eastward Naaran, and westward Gezer and its dependent villages, and Shechem and its dependent villages as far as to Gazah and its dependent villages.
29 And in the hands of the children of Manasseh, Beth-shean and its dependent villages, Taanach and its dependent villages, Megiddo and its dependent villages, Dor and its dependent villages. In these dwelt the children of Joseph the son of Israel.
30 The sons of Asher: Jimnah, and Jishvah, and Jishvi, and Beriah; Serah their sister.
31 And the sons of Beriah: Heber, and Malchiel, who is the father of Birzavith.
32 And Heber begot Japhlet, and Shomer, and Hotham, and Shua their sister.
33 And the sons of Japhlet: Pasach, and Bimhal, and Ashvath; these are the sons of Japhlet.
34 And the sons of Shemer: Ahi, and Rohgah, and Hubbah, and Aram.
35 And the sons of his brother Helem: Zophah, and Jimna, and Shelesh, and Amal.
36 The sons of Zophah: Suah, and Harnepher, and Shual, and Beri, and Jimrah,
37 Bezer, and Hod, and Shamma, and Shilshah, and Jithran, and Beera.
38 And the sons of Jether: Jephunneh, and Pispah, and Ara.
39 And the sons of Ulla: Arah, and Hanniel, and Rizia.
40 All these were the sons of Asher, heads of fathers' houses, choice men, mighty of valour, chiefs of the princes. And their number according to their genealogy, registered as fit for service for war, was twenty-six thousand men.