1 When I would heal Israel, then the iniquity of Ephraim is discovered, and the wickedness of Samaria: for they practise falsehood; and the thief entereth in,  the troop of robbers assaileth without.
2 And they say not in their hearts  I remember all their wickedness: now do their own doings encompass them; they are before my face.
3 They make the king glad with their wickedness, and the princes with their lies.
4 They all practise adultery, as an oven heated by the baker: he ceaseth from stirring [the fire] after he hath kneaded the dough, until it be leavened.
5 In the day of our king, the princes made themselves sick with the heat of wine: he stretched out his hand to scorners.
6 For they have applied their heart like an oven to their lying in wait: their baker sleepeth all the night; in the morning it burneth like a flaming fire.
7 They are all hot as an oven, and devour their judges; all their kings are fallen: there is none among them that calleth unto me.
8 Ephraim, he mixeth himself with the peoples; Ephraim is a cake not turned.
9 Strangers have devoured his strength, and he knoweth  not; yea, gray hairs are here and there upon him, and he knoweth  not.
10 And the pride of Israel testifieth to his face; and they do not return to Jehovah their God, nor seek him for all this.
11 And Ephraim is become like a silly dove without understanding: they call to Egypt, they go to Assyria.
12 When they go, I will spread my net upon them; I will bring them down as the fowl of the heavens; I will chastise them, according as their assembly hath heard.
13 Woe unto them! for they have wandered from me; destruction unto them! for they have transgressed against me. And I would redeem them; but they speak lies against me.
14 And they cried not unto me in their heart, when they howled upon their beds; they assemble themselves for corn and new wine; they have turned aside from me.
15 I have indeed trained, I have strengthened their arms, but they imagine mischief against me.
16 They return,  not to the  High: they are like a deceitful bow. Their princes shall fall by the sword for the rage of their tongue: this shall be their derision in the land of Egypt.