1 When Ephraim spoke, there was trembling; he exalted himself in Israel: but he trespassed through Baal, and he died.
2 And now they sin more and more, and have made them molten images of their silver, idols according to their own understanding, all of it the work of the craftsmen: they say of them, Let the men that sacrifice kiss the calves.
3 Therefore they shall be as the morning cloud, and as the early dew that passeth away, as the chaff driven with the whirlwind out of the threshing-floor, and as the smoke out of the lattice.
4 Yet I  Jehovah thy God from the land of Egypt, and thou hast known no God but me; and there is no saviour besides me.
5 I knew thee in the wilderness, in the land of drought.
6 According to their pasture, they became full; they became full, and their heart was exalted: therefore have they forgotten me.
7 And I will be unto them as a lion; as a leopard I will lurk for them by the way;
8 I will meet them as a bear bereaved of her , and will rend the covering of their heart, and there will I devour them like a lioness: the beast of the field shall tear them.
9 It is thy destruction, O Israel, that [thou art] against me, against thy help.
10 Where then is thy king, that he may save thee in all thy cities? and thy judges of whom thou saidst, Give me a king and princes?—
11 I gave thee a king in mine anger, and took him away in my wrath.
12 The iniquity of Ephraim is bound up; his sin is laid by in store.
13 The pangs of a woman in travail shall come upon him: he is a son not wise; for at the time of the breaking forth of children, he was not there.
14 I will ransom them from the power of Sheol. I will redeem them from death: where, O death, are thy plagues? where, O Sheol, is thy destruction? Repentance shall be hid from mine eyes.
15 Though he be fruitful among  brethren, an east wind shall come, a wind of Jehovah  cometh up from the wilderness, and his spring shall become dry, and his fountain shall be dried up: he shall spoil the treasure of all pleasant vessels.
16 Samaria shall bear her guilt; for she hath rebelled against her God: they shall fall by the sword; their infants shall be dashed in pieces, and their women with child shall be ripped up.