1 If therefore ye have been raised with the Christ, seek the things [which are] above, where the Christ is, sitting at  right hand of God:
2 have your mind on the things [that are] above, not on the things [that are] on the earth;
3 for ye have died, and your life is hid with the Christ in God.
4 When the Christ is manifested who  our life, then shall *ye* also be manifested with him in glory.
5 Put to death therefore your members which  upon the earth, fornication, uncleanness, vile passions, evil lust, and unbridled desire, which is idolatry.
6 On account of which things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience.
7 In which *ye* also once walked when ye lived in these things.
8 But now, put off, *ye* also, all  things, wrath, anger, malice, blasphemy, vile language out of your mouth.
9 Do not lie to one another, having put off the old man with his deeds,
10 and having put on the new, renewed into full knowledge according to  image of him that has created him;
11 wherein there is not Greek and Jew, circumcision and uncircumcision, barbarian, Scythian, bondman, freeman; but Christ  everything, and in all.
12 Put on therefore, as  elect of God, holy and beloved, bowels of compassion, kindness, lowliness, meekness, longsuffering;
13 forbearing one another, and forgiving one another, if any should have a complaint against any; even as the Christ has forgiven you, so also  *ye*.
14 And to all these  love, which is the bond of perfectness.
15 And let the peace of Christ preside in your hearts, to which also ye have been called in one body, and be thankful.
16 Let the word of the Christ dwell in you richly, in all wisdom teaching and admonishing one another, in psalms, hymns, spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to God.
17 And everything, whatever ye may do in word or in deed,  all things in  name of  Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father by him.
18 Wives, be subject to  husbands, as is fitting in  Lord.
19 Husbands, love your wives, and be not bitter against them.
20 Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well-pleasing in  Lord.
21 Fathers, do not vex your children, to the end that they be not disheartened.
22 Bondmen, obey in all things your masters according to flesh; not with eye-services, as men-pleasers, but in simplicity of heart, fearing the Lord.
23 Whatsoever ye do, labour at it heartily, as [doing it] to the Lord, and not to men;
24 knowing that of  Lord ye shall receive the recompense of the inheritance; ye serve the Lord Christ.
25 For he that does a wrong shall receive the wrong he has done, and there is no respect of persons.