1 `And at that time stand up doth Michael, the great head, who is standing up for the sons of thy people, and there hath been a time of distress, such as hath not been since there hath been a nation till that time, and at that time do thy people escape, every one who is found written in the book.
2 `And the multitude of those sleeping in the dust of the ground do awake, some to life age-during, and some to reproaches -- to abhorrence age-during.
3 And those teaching do shine as the brightness of the expanse, and those justifying the multitude as stars to the age and for ever.
4 And thou, O Daniel, hide the things, and seal the book till the time of the end, many do go to and fro, and knowledge is multiplied.'
5 And I have looked -- I, Daniel -- and lo, two others are standing, one here at the edge of the flood, and one there at the edge of the flood,
6 and he saith to the one clothed in linen, who  upon the waters of the flood, `Till when  the end of these wonders?'
7 And I hear the one clothed in linen, who  upon the waters of the flood, and he doth lift up his right hand and his left unto the heavens, and sweareth by Him who is living to the age, that, `After a time, times, and a half, and at the completion of the scattering of the power of the holy people, finished are all these.'
8 And I have heard, and I do not understand, and I say, `O my lord, what  the latter end of these?'
9 And he saith, `Go, Daniel; for hidden and sealed  the things till the time of the end;
10 Purify themselves, yea, make themselves white, yea, refined are many: and the wicked have done wickedly, and none of the wicked understand, and those acting wisely do understand;
11 and from the time of the turning aside of the perpetual , and to the giving out of the desolating abomination,  days a thousand, two hundred, and ninety.
12 O the blessedness of him who is waiting earnestly, and doth come to the days, a thousand, three hundred, thirty and five.
13 And thou, go on to the end, then thou dost rest, and dost stand in thy lot at the end of the days.'