1 For the rest, my brothers, let there be prayer for us that the word of the Lord may go forward with increasing glory, even as it does with you;
2 And that we may be made free from foolish and evil men; for not all have faith.
3 But the Lord is true, who will give you strength and keep you safe from evil.
4 And we have faith in the Lord about you, that you are doing and will do the things about which we give you orders.
5 And may your hearts be guided by the Lord into the love of God and quiet waiting for Christ.
6 Now we give you orders, brothers, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, to keep away from all those whose behaviour is not well ordered and in harmony with the teaching which they had from us.
7 For you yourselves are used to taking us as your example, because our life among you was ruled by order,
8 And we did not take food from any man for nothing, but were working hard night and day not to be a trouble to any of you:
9 Not because we have not the right, but to make ourselves an example to you, so that you might do the same.
10 For even when we were with you we gave you orders, saying, If any man does no work, let him not have food.
11 For it has come to our ears that there are some among you whose behaviour is uncontrolled, who do no work at all, but are over-interested in the business of others.
12 Now to such we give orders and make request in the Lord Jesus, that, working quietly, they get their living.
13 And you, my brothers, do not get tired of well-doing.
14 And if any man does not give attention to what we have said in this letter, take note of that man, and keep away from him, so that he may be shamed.
15 Have no feeling of hate for him, but take him in hand seriously as a brother.
16 Now the Lord of peace himself give you peace at all times and in every way. May the Lord be with you all.
17 These words of love to you at the end are in my writing, Paul's writing, and this is the mark of every letter from me.
18 May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.
