1 "And so then, O priests, this command is for you: 
2 If you will not listen, and if you will not take it to heart to give glory to my name," says Yahweh of hosts, "then I will send the curse on you, and I will curse your blessings; moreover I have already cursed them because you are not taking it to heart. 
3 Look! I am going to rebuke your offspring, and I will scatter offal on your faces, the offal of your religious feasts, and you will be carried to it.
4 "Then you will know that I have sent to you this command, that my covenant with Levi continues," says Yahweh of hosts. 
5 "My covenant with him was one of life and peace, and I gave them to him. This required reverence, and he revered me and stood in awe before my name. 
6 The instruction of truth was in his mouth, and wickedness was not found on his lips. In peace and in uprightness he walked with me, and he brought back many from sin. 
7 For the lips of the priest should guard knowledge, and they should seek instruction from his mouth, for he is the messenger of Yahweh of hosts. 
8 But you, you have turned from the way; you have caused many to stumble by your instruction; you have ruined the covenant of Levi," says Yahweh of hosts. 
9 "And in turn I have made you despised and humbled before all the people, inasmuch as you are not keeping my way, but are favoring your own instruction."
10 Do we not all have one father? Has not one God created us? Why then are we unfaithful to one another, profaning the covenant of our ancestors? 
11 Judah has been faithless, and a detestable thing has been done in Israel and in Jerusalem. Judah has profaned the sanctuary of Yahweh which he loves, and has married the daughter of a foreign god. 
12 May Yahweh cut off from the tents of Jacob the man who does this, the one who is awake and who answers, and the one who brings an offering to Yahweh of hosts!
13 And this you do as well: you cover the altar of Yahweh with tears, with weeping and with groaning, because he no longer regards the offering or accepts it with favor from your hand. 
14 But you ask, "For what reason?" Because Yahweh stands as a witness between you and the wife of your youth, against whom you have been unfaithful, even though she is your marriage partner and your wife by covenant. 
15 Did not one God make them? But a remnant of the spirit is his. And what does the one God desire? An offspring of God. You must be attentive to your spirit, and you must not be unfaithful to the wife of your youth. 
16 "For I hate divorce," says Yahweh, the God of Israel, "and he who covers his clothing with violence," says Yahweh of hosts. "You must be attentive to your spirit and you must not be unfaithful."
17 You have wearied Yahweh with your words, but you ask, "With what have we wearied him?" You have done so when you say, "Everyone who does evil is good in the sight of Yahweh, and in them he delights," or "Where is the God of justice?"