And more than this, before the fat was fiercely; the priest's servant would come and say to the man who was making the oblation, Give me some of the flesh to be cooked for the priest; he hast no taste for food cooked in water, but would have you give it uncooked.
And Saul and all Israel, hearing these words of the Philistine, were troubled and full of fear.
And they pass over, and go on, and the sun goeth in upon them near Gibeah, which is to Benjamin:
Then Saul said to Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan told him, and said, I did but taste a little honey with the end of the rod that was in my hand, and, lo, I must die.
Therefore Saul removed him from him, and made him a captain over a thousand men, and he went out and came in before the people.
David replied, "What have I done even now? I merely asked a question!
once being publicly exposed both to insults and to afflictions, and once becoming sharers with those who were treated in this way.
When all the men of the tower of Shechem heard of it, they entered into the stronghold of the house of Elberith.
And Jephthah said unto them, I and my people were at great strife with the children of Ammon; and when I called you, ye delivered me not out of their hands.
And turn ye not aside: for then should ye go after vain things, which cannot profit nor save; for they are vain.
Because of this, he must offer sacrifices for sins for the people, as well as for himself.
He said to him, "We are passing from Beth-lehem Judah to the farther side of the hill country of Ephraim. I am from there, and I went to Beth-lehem Judah. I am going to Yahweh's house; and there is no one who hast taken me into his house.
And Jehovah gave them up into the hands of Jabin, king of Canaan, who was ruleth in Hazor; the captain of his army was Sisera, who was living in Harosheth of the Gentiles.
But all Israel and Judah loved David, for he went out and came in before them.
There remains then a sabbatism to the people of God.
Awake, awake, Deborah: awake, awake, utter a song: arise, Barak, and lead thy captivity captive, thou son of Abinoam.
The raiders went out from the camp of the Philistines in three divisions. One division turned on the road to Ophrah toward the land of Shual.
And Saul said, Thus shall ye say to David, The king desireth not any dowry, but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be avenged of the king's enemies. But Saul thought to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines.
And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life:
And when he came, Eli was seated by the wayside watching: and in his heart was fear for the ark of God. And when the man came into the village and gave the news, there was a great outcry.
War came again, so David went out and fought against the Philistines and defeated them thoroughly so that they fled before him.
We made an attack on the south part of the country of the Cherethites, and on the land which is Judah's, and on the south of Caleb; and we put Ziklag on fire.
Yahweh sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor; the captain of whose army was Sisera, who lived in Harosheth of the Gentiles.
Who serve unto the example and shadow of heavenly things. As it was answered to Moses, when he was to finish tabernacle: See (saith he) that thou make all things according to the pattern which was shewn thee on the mount.
And as they went up the hill to the city, they found young maidens going out to draw water, and said unto them, Is the seer here?
And inasmuch as it is not without an oath, (for the others indeed were made priests without an oath,
And Saul said: No man shall be killed this day, because Jehovah this day hath wrought salvation in Israel:
In those days, when there was no king in Israel, there was a certain Levite living on the farther side of the hill-country of Ephraim, who took for himself a concubine out of Beth-lehem Judah.
Will the rulers of Keilah deliver me into his hand? Will Saul come down as your servant hast heard? O Yahweh, the God of Israel, please tell your servant!" And Yahweh said, "He will come down."
Therefore,' declares Yahweh the God of Israel, 'though I solemnly said that your house and the house of your ancestor would walk before me forever, but now,' declares Yahweh, 'far be it from me, for those who honor me I will honor, but those who despise me, I will treat with contempt!
and the Philistine looketh attentively, and seeth David, and despiseth him, for he was a youth, and ruddy, with a fair appearance.
The king sat at his seat as before, the seat by the wall, and Jonathan got up, and Abner sat beside Saul, but David's place was empty.
But I trust in Jehovah that I also myself shall come shortly.
And she said, O my lord, as your soul is living, my lord, I am that woman who was making a prayer to Jehovah here by your side:
And they stood every man in his place round about the camp; and all the host ran, and cried, and fled.
for also in Thessalonica once and even twice ye sent to me for my need.
and, so fearful was the sight, Moses said, I am exceedingly afraid and full of trembling;)
When David realized that Saul had gone out to seek his life, David was in the wilderness of Ziph at Horesh.
And it came to pass the next day, that the Philistines came to strip the slain, and they found Saul and his three sons fallen on mount Gilboa.
And he took the elders of the city, and thorns of the wilderness and briers, and with them he taught the men of Succoth.
Behold, all ye, children of Israel, deliberate and give here counsel.
They found among the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead four hundred young virgins, who had not known man by lying with him; and they brought them to the camp to Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
Grace be with you all.
The men of Israel went out of Mizpah, and pursued the Philistines, and struck them, until they came under Beth Kar.
The house of Joseph also went up against Beth-el, and Jehovah was with them.
Now Anna spoke in her heart, and only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard at all. Heli therefore thought her to be drunk,
And Jephthah sent messengers unto the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What hast thou to do with me, that thou art come against me to fight in my land?
And Saul abode in the uttermost part of Gabaa under the pomegranate-tree, which was in Magron: and the people with him were about six hundred men.
For to go against his orders is like the sin of those who make use of secret arts, and pride is like giving worship to images. Because you have put away from you the word of Jehovah, he hast put you from your place as king.
Therefore I also have lent him to Jehovah all the days of his life he shall be lent to Jehovah. And they adored Jehovah there. And Anna prayed, and said:
But when Jesus had made one oblation for sins for ever, he took his place at the right hand of God;
But you have come to Mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable multitudes of angels,
who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God:
The men of Ephraim were gathered together, and passed northward; and they said to Jephthah, "Why did you pass over to fight against the children of Ammon, and didn't call us to go with you? We will burn your house around you with fire!"
Not that I seek gift, but I seek the fruit that may abound to your account.
And at that time, when Eli was resting in his place, (now his eyes were becoming clouded so that he was not able to see,)
You will see the affliction of my habitation, in all the wealth which I will give Israel; and there shall not be an old man in your house forever.
And the words, Still one more, make it clear that there will be a taking away of those things which are earthquake; as of things which are made, so that there may be only those things of which no shaking is possible.
Be nothing solicitous; but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your petitions be made known to God.
just as also in another place he says, "You are a priest forever according to the ordinance of Melchizedek,"
And he took his army, and divided it into three bands, and laid ambushes in the field. And seeing that the people came out of the city, he arose and set upon them,
And they gave him seventy pieces of silver out of the house of Baal-Berith, and Abimelech hired with them vain and wanton men, and they followed him.
Be mindful of those leading you, who did speak to you the word of God, whose faith -- considering the issue of the behaviour -- be imitating,
Then Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, having three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
And Moses was faithful in all his house as a servant, for a testimony to the things that would be spoken,
And Yahweh said to him, "But I will be with you, and you will defeat Midian as if they are one man."
And he said to the men of Succoth, Give bread cakes to my people, for they are overcome with weariness, and I am going on after Zebah and Zalmunna, the kings of Midian.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have brought again the ark of Jehovah; come ye down, and fetch it up to you.
who being effulgence of his glory and expression of his substance, And upholding all things by the word of his power, having made [by himself] the purification of sins, set himself down on the right hand of the greatness on high,
Forasmuch then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself likewise took part of the same; that through death he might destroy him that had the power of death, that is, the devil;
Then all the children of Israel went out, and the congregation was gathered together as one man, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, with the land of Gilead, unto Jehovah in Mizpah.
The descendants of Benjamin went out to meet the troops, and they lured them away from the city and began to inflict casualties on the troops as before, on the main road, one of which goes up to Beth-el, the other to Gibeah; and in the field there were about thirty men of Israel.
And the Philistines fought, and Israel was routed, and they fled every man to his tent; and there was a very great slaughter, and there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen.
And Samuel said: As thy sword hath made women childless, so shall thy mother be childless among women. And Samuel hewed him in pieces before Jehovah in Galgal.
But we cannot give them wives of our daughters, for the children of Israel have sworn, saying, Cursed be he that giveth a wife to the Benjaminites!
But Christ being come a high priest of good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this builded;
And in the same way do you be glad and have a part in my joy.
And even Jehovah, saith unto Samuel, `Till when art thou mourning for Saul, and I have rejected him from reigning over Israel? fill thy horn with oil, and go, I send thee unto Jesse the Beth-Lehemite, for I have seen among his sons for Myself a king.
For Jehovah will not cast off his people for his great name's sake, because it hast pleased even Jehovah, to make you his people.
for your partnership in furtherance of the Good News from the first day until now;
The servants of Achish said to him, "Is not this David the king of the land? Is it not for this one that they sang in the dances, saying, 'Saul killed his thousands, but David his ten thousands?'"
who serve a sketch and shadow of the heavenly things, just as Moses was warned when he was about to complete the tabernacle, for he says, "See to it that you make everything according to the pattern which was shown to you on the mountain."
When he restored the money to his mother, his mother took two hundred pieces of silver, and gave them to a silversmith, who made an engraved image and a molten image out of it. It was in the house of Micah.
So the children of Benjamin saw that they were struck; for the men of Israel gave to Benjamin, because they trusted the ambushers whom they had set against Gibeah.
Saul became very angry, and this saying displeased him, and he thought, "They have attributed to David ten thousands, but to me they have attributed thousands! What more can he have but the kingdom?"
Then David went to the other side and stood on the top of the mountain at a distance; the distance was great between them.
not according to the covenant which I made to their fathers in day of my taking their hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; because *they* did not continue in my covenant, and *I* did not regard them, saith Jehovah.
The Gazites were told, "Samson hast come here," so they surrounded the place and lay in ambush for him all night at the city gate. They kept silent all night, saying, "We will wait until the morning light, and then we will kill him."
And the Holy Spirit also bears us witness [of it]; for after what was said:
But you know his proven character, that like a child with a father he served with me for the gospel.
And the family of Joseph went up against Beth-el, and Jehovah was with them.
The word of Samuel came to all Israel. Now Israel went out against the Philistines to battle, and encamped besides Ebenezer; and the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
Then the responsible men of Jabesh said to him, Give us seven days, so that we may send men to every part of Israel: and then, if no one comes to our help, we will come out to you.
Have moreover tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the world to come,
And when he had set the brands on fire, he let them go into the standing grain of the Philistines, and burnt up both the shocks, and also the standing grain, with the vineyards and olives.
Therefore they said: Who is thereof all the tribes of Israel, that came not up to Jehovah to Maspha. And behold the inhabitants of Jabes Galaad were found not to have been in that army.
If ye endure chastening, God worketh with you as with sons; for what son is he whom the father chasteneth not?
So Saul said to his servant, "Your suggestion is a good one. Come, let us go." And they went to the village where the man of God was.
Jonathan said to the young man who bore his armor, "Come, let us go over to the garrison of these uncircumcised. It may be that Yahweh will work for us; for there is no restraint on Yahweh to save by many or by few."
They said to him, "Behold, you are old, and your sons don't walk in your ways. Now make us a king to judge us like all the nations."
nor did they show favor to the house of Jerub-Baal (that is, Gideon) in accordance with all the good that he did for Israel.
And Jehovah said to Samuel: How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, whom I have rejected from reigning over Israel? fill thy horn with oil, and come, that I may send thee to Isai the Bethlehemite: for I have provided me a king among his sons.
And taking up the mouth-bone of an ass newly dead, which he saw by chance on the earth, he put to death a thousand men with it.
And Gaal, the son of Ebed, went out, and took his place at the doorway into the town; then Abimelech and his people got up from the place where they had been waiting.
The Philistines were afraid, for they said, "God hast come into the camp." They said, "Woe to us! For there hast not been such a thing beforehand.
For if that first was faultless, place had not been sought for a second.
And Deborah and Barak son of Abinoam sang on that day:
Salute all your leaders, and all the saints. They from Italy salute you.
Jonathan climbed up on his hands and on his feet, and his armor bearer after him: and they fell before Jonathan; and his armor bearer killed them after him.
If a man comes across his hater, will he let him get away safe? so may you be rewarded by Jehovah for what you have done for me today.
And the Philistines came together to make war on Israel, three thousand war-carriages and six thousand horsemen and an army of people like the sands of the sea in number; they came up and took up their position in Michmash to the east of Beth-aven.
And David girded his sword above his long robe, and beginneth to go, for he hath not tried ; and David saith unto Saul, `I am not able to go with these, for I had not tried;' and David turneth them aside from off him.
So Samuel went back after Saul, and Saul gave worship to Jehovah.
I exhort Euodia, and exhort Syntyche, to be of the same mind in Lord;
Now Saul came from the field, driving the oxen before him; and he said, Why are the people weeping? And they gave him word of what the men of Jabesh had said.
`Also now, station yourselves and see this great thing which even Jehovah, is doing before your eyes;
For every house is built by someone; but he who built all things is God.
And Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite died, and was buried in Pirathon in the land of Ephraim, in the mount of the Amalekites.
And the men of Azotus seeing this kind of plague, said: The ark of the God of Israel shall not stay with us: for his hand is heavy upon us, and upon Dagon our god.
Doing nothing through envy or through pride, but with low thoughts of self let everyone take others to be better than himself;
But this is what we will do to Gibeah: we will go up against it by the decision of Jehovah;
Do not increase speaking very proud words! Let no arrogance go forth from your mouth, for Yahweh is a God of knowledge whose works are not weighed.
And Saul discerneth the voice of David, and saith, `Is this thy voice, my son David?' and David saith, `My voice, my lord, O king!'
And all Israel heard say that Saul had smitten a garrison of the Philistines, and that Israel was had in abomination with the Philistines. And the people were called together after Saul to Gilgal.
And they struck Moab at that time, about ten thousand men, all strong and able men; no one escaped.
for if that first were faultless, a place would not have been sought for a second.
Saul also went to his house to Gibeah; and the army went with him, whose hearts God had touched.
After this he loved a woman, who dwelt in the valley of Sorec, and she was called Dalila.
And said: Here am I: for thou didst call me. Then Heli understood that Jehovah called the child, and he said to Samuel: Go, and sleep; and if he shall call thee any more, thou shalt say: Speak, Jehovah, for thy servant heareth. So Samuel went and slept in its place.
The men of Israel were distressed that day; for Saul had adjured the people, saying, "Cursed is the man who eats any food until it is evening, and I am avenged of my enemies." So none of the people tasted food.
He will take the tenth of your sheep: and ye shall be his servants.
When Eli heard the noise of the crying, he said, "What does the noise of this tumult mean?" The man hurried, and came and told Eli.
`Speak, I pray you, in the ears of all the masters of Shechem, Which good for you -- the ruleth over you of seventy men (all the sons of Jerubbaal), or the ruleth over you of one man? -- and ye have remembered that I your bone and your flesh.'
And Jehovah will also give Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow shalt thou and thy sons be with me; the army of Israel also will Jehovah give into the hand of the Philistines.
For the bodies of those animals, whose blood is brought into the holy place by the high priest as an offering for sin, are burned outside of the camp.
The people said to Saul, "Shall Jonathan die, who hast worked this great salvation in Israel? far from it! As Yahweh lives, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground; for he hast worked with God today!" So the people rescued Jonathan, that he didn't die.
Please don't let my lord pay attention to this worthless fellow, Nabal; for as his name is, so is he. Nabal is his name, and folly is with him; but I, your servant, didn't see my lord's young men, whom you sent.
And Eli said to her, How long wilt thou be drunken? put away thy wine from thee.
And it came to pass, when Israel was strong, that they put the Canaanites to taskwork, and did not utterly drive them out.
The trees went forth on a time to anoint a king over them; and they said unto the olive-tree, Reign thou over us.
For they truly gave us punishment for a short time, as it seemed good to them; but he does it for our profit, so that we may become holy as he is.
And righteous as it is destined for people to die once, and after this, justice,
And the chief of all the people, even of all the tribes of Israel, presented themselves in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen that drew sword.
You must make images of your tumors and images of your mice that are ravaging the land, and you must give glory to the God of Israel. Perhaps he will lighten his hand on you and on your gods and on your land.
And his mother's relatives spoke all these words concerning him to all the lords of Shechem; and they supported Abimelech, for they said, "He is our relative."
And the people served Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders whose days were prolonged after Joshua, who had seen all the great works of Jehovah, which he had done for Israel.
Wherefore ye shall make images of your emerods, and images of your mice that mar the land; and ye shall give glory unto the God of Israel: peradventure he will lighten his hand from off you, and from off your gods, and from off your land.
And after him came Jair the Gileadite, who was judge over Israel for twenty-two years.
And Barak said to her, If thou goest with me, then I will go, but if thou goest not with me, I will not go.
The children of Israel did that which was evil in Yahweh's sight: and Yahweh delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
But Samuel said, "How can I go? If Saul hears, he will kill me." Yahweh said, "You must take a heifer from the herd with you, and you must say, 'I have come to sacrifice to Yahweh.'
You made him a little lower than angels; you gave him a crown of glory and honor, and made him over all the works of your hands:
So they smote that day the Philistines from Machmas to Ailon. And the people were wearied exceedingly.
By whom this poor body of ours will be changed into the image of the body of his glory, in the measure of the working by which he is able to put all things under himself.
And he said, Peaceably: I am come to sacrifice to Jehovah. Hallow yourselves, and come with me to the sacrifice. And he hallowed Jesse and his sons, and called them to the sacrifice.
Jonathan therefore gave his arms to the boy, and said to him: Go, and carry them into the city.
So then, my beloved and greatly desired brothers, my joy and crown, thus stand firm in Jehovah, dear friends.
Now the first covenant had regulations for worship and the earthly sanctuary.
she shall not eat of anything that cometh of the vine, neither shall she drink wine or strong drink, nor eat anything unclean: all that I commanded her shall she observe.
"The kings came, they fought; then the kings of Canaan fought; at Taanach by the waters of Megiddo, they gat no plunder in silver.
But Barak went after the war-carriages and the army as far as Harosheth of the Gentiles; and all Sisera's army was put to the sword; not a man got away.
So he brought him into his house, and gave provender unto the asses: and they washed their feet, and did eat and drink.
It is necessary therefore that the patterns heavenly things should be cleansed with men: but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these.
So then, please proclaim in the hearing of the troops, saying, 'Whoever is fearful and trembling, let him return and depart from the Mount of Gilead.'" about twenty-two thousand troops returned, and ten thousand remained.
And David said to Abisai: Kill him not: for who shall put forth his hand against the Lord's anointed, and shall be guiltless?
And while Samuel was offering the burned thereof, the Philistines came near for the attack on Israel; but at the thunder of the Lord's voice that day the Philistines were overcome with fear, and they gave way before Israel.
By faith Abraham made an offering of Isaac, when he was tested: and he with whom the agreement had been made gave up as an offering the only son of his body,
And David said, The Lord, who kept me safe from the grip of the lion and the bear, will be my saviour from the hands of this Philistine. And Saul said to David, Go! and may Jehovah be with you.
And a man of Benjamin went running from the fight and came to Shiloh the same day with his clothing out of order and earth on his head.
For as to our own daughters we cannot give them, being bound with an oath and a curse, whereby we said: Cursed be he that shall give Benjamin any of his daughters to wife.
For you both had compassion on me in my pendants, and joyfully accepted the plundering of your possessions, knowing that you have for yourselves a better possession and an enduring one in the heavens.
And David said to Abigail, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who sent thee this day to meet me.
The Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and encamped in Shunem; and Saul gathered all Israel together, and they encamped in Gilboa.
And Jehovah saith, `Judah doth go up; lo, I have given the land into his hand.'
But the olive-tree said to them, Am I to give up my wealth of oil, by which men give glory to God, and go waving over the trees?
Moreover I count all things to be but loss for the excellent knowledge of Jesus Christ my Lord; for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them but as dung, that I may gain Christ:
Then David and the people who were with him lifted up their voice and wept until they had no more power to weep.
and said unto him, Thus saith Jephthah, Israel took not away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon;
The princes of Soccoth answered: Peradventure the palms of the hands of Zebee and Salmana are in thy hand, and therefore thou demandest that we should give bread to thy army.
Now the Philistines had taken God's ark, and they brought it from Ebenezer to Ashdod.
Judah captured Azzah and itself territory, Ashkelon and itself territory, and Ekron and itself territory.
Then the elders of the assembly said, How shall we do for wives for them that remain, seeing the women are destroyed out of Benjamin?
being given circumcision on the eighth day, of the nation of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews; in relation to the law, a Pharisee:
Then Samuel gave him a account of everything, keeping nothing back. And he said, It is Jehovah; let him do what seems good to him.
And all this assembly shall know that Jehovah saveth not with sword and spear, for the battle is the Lord's, and he will give you into our hands.
Then Benjamin came back; and they gave them the women whom they had kept from death among the women of Jabesh-gilead: but still there were not enough for them.
Brothers, I don't regard myself as yet having taken away, but one thing I do. Forgetting the things which are behind, and stretching forward to the things which are before,
And the women sung as they played, and they said: I Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten thousands.
I give thanks to my God upon my every remembrance of you,
And the children of Israel said to Jehovah, We have sinned. Do thou unto us according to all that is good in thy sight; only deliver us, we pray thee, this day.
And David girded his sword upon his dress, and sought to go; for he had not yet tried . And David said to Saul, I cannot go in these: for I have never tried . And David put them off him.
And Gideon cometh in unto the Jordan, passing over, he and the three hundred men who with him -- wearied, and pursuing,
Then Jesse called Abinadab, and made him pass before Samuel. And he said, Neither hast even Jehovah, chosen this one.
And whenever the evil spirit from God came on Saul, David took his instrument and made music: so new life came to Saul, and he bought well, and the evil spirit went away from him.
So do not give up your hope which will be greatly rewarded.
And Abimelech abideth in Arumah, and Zebul casteth forth Gaal and his brethren from dwelling in Shechem.
And David learned of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? and Jehovah said to David, Go and smite the Philistines, and save Keilah.
And Jonathan said to the young man that bare his armor, Come, and let us go over unto the garrison of these their uncircumcision: it may be that Jehovah will work for us; for there is no restraint to Jehovah to save by many or by few.
Now when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, the Amalekite had raided the Negev and Ziklag. When they attacked Ziklag, they burned it with fire.
And the youth cometh unto the place of the arrow which Jonathan hath shot, and Jonathan calleth after the youth, and saith, `Is not the arrow beyond thee?'
And he saith to his youth, `Run, find, I pray thee, the arrows which I am shooting;' the youth is running, and he hath shot the arrow, causing to pass over him.
and they say unto Jephthah, `Come, and thou hast been to us for captain, and we fight against the Bene-Ammon.'
Then the five men that had gone to spy out the country of Laish spoke and said to their brethren, Do ye know that there is in these houses an ephod, and teraphim, and a graven image, and a molten image? And now ye know what to do.
And David came to Saul, and stood before him: and he loved him exceedingly, and made him his armourbearer.
Gideon came to the the Jordan, and passed over, he, and the three hundred men who were with him, faint, yet pursuing.
If he is able to have a fight with me and overcome me, then we will be your servants: but if I am able to overcome him, then you will be our servants and do work for us.
for we have not a chief priest unable to sympathise with our infirmities, but tempted in all things in like manner -- apart from sin;
There is none holy as Jehovah; for there is none besides thee; neither is there any rock like our God.
Then all the Midianites and the Amalekite and the children of the east assembled themselves together; and they passed over, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
And the children of Israel departed thence at that time, every man to his tribe and to his family, and they went out from thence every man to his inheritance.
And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your thoughts in Christ Jesus.
Now unto God and our Father be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
And the Philistines stood on the mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on the mountain on the other side: and there was a valley between them.
And Samuel said to Saul, I will not go back with you; for you have put away from you the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah hast put you from your place as king over Israel.
For whom Jehovah loveth, he chastiseth; and he scourgeth every son whom he receiveth.
And Achish believeth in David, saying, `He hath made himself utterly abhorred among his people, in Israel, and hath been to me for a servant age-during.'
The children of Israel came near against the children of Benjamin the second day.
His father-in-law, the young lady's father, kept him there; and he stayed with him three days. So they ate and drank, and stayed there.
Now she had an ambush waiting in the inner place. She said to him, "The Philistines are on you, Samson!" He broke the cords, as a string of tow is broken when it touches the fire. So his strength was not known.
And waiting a long time till they were ashamed, and seeing that no man opened the door, they took a key: and opening, they found their lord lying dead on the ground.
So six hundred men of the Danites from Zorah and Eshtaol went out armed with instruments of war.
Therefore, my brothers, beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, so stand firm in Jehovah, my beloved.
Therefore now rise up early in the morning with the servants of your lord who have come with you; and as soon as you are up early in the morning, and have light, depart."
Grace with you all.
And Samuel taketh the bowl of the oil, and poureth on his head, and kisseth him, and saith, `Is it because Jehovah hath appointed thee over His inheritance for leader?
And after giving the oblation, he sent away the people who had come with the thereof.
And so then, listen to their voice. However, you must earnestly warn them; you must explain to them the custom of the king who will rule over them."
Then Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren: and the spirit of Jehovah came upon David from that day forward: and Samuel rose up, and went to Ramatha.
And Samuel lay until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah. And Samuel feared to declare the vision to Eli.
And Saul said to David, Thou art not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him: for thou art but a youth, and he a man of war from his youth.
I also will not destroy the nations which Josue left, when he died:
and we see that they were not able to enter in because of unbelief.
And the children of Benjamin boldly issued out of the city, and seeing their enemies flee, pursued them a long way, so as to wound and kill some of them, as they had done the first and second day, Whilst they fled by two highways, whereof one goeth up to Beth-el, and the other to Gabaa, and they slew about thirty men:
And when Samuel had caused all the tribes of Israel to come near, the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
And Abimelech sat down in Ruma: but Zebul drove Gaal, and his companions out of the city, and would not suffer them to abide in it.
and the people come in unto the forest, and lo, the honey dropped, and none is moving his hand unto his mouth, for the people feared oath.
And they were not kind to the house of Jerubbaal, that is, Gideon, in reward for all the good he had done to Israel.
For those who say such things make it clear that they are searching for a country for themselves.
But I would ye should understand, brethren, that the things which happened unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel;
This phrase, "Yet once more", signifies the wandering of those things that are shaken, as of things that have been made, that those things which are not shaken may remain.
The cows went straight on the way on the road to Beth Shemesh, on the one main road, lowing as they went. They did not turn aside to the right or to the left, and the rulers of the Philistines were walking after them up to the border of Beth Shemesh.
And the men of Israel were joined together that day; and Saul adjured the people, speaking: Cursed be the man that shall eat food till evening, till I be revenged of my enemies. So none of the people tasted any food:
David went, and returned from Saul, to feed his father's flock in Beth-lehem.
And for this reason he is mediator of a new covenant, so that, death having taken place for redemption of the transgressions under the first covenant, called might receive the promise of the eternal inheritance.
Jonathan answered Saul, "David earnestly asked permission of me to go to Beth-lehem.
when David arose and went, he and his men, and smote of the Philistines two hundred men; and David brought their foreskins, and they delivered them in full to the king, that he might be the king's son-in-law. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter as wife.
The one edge fixed on the north over-against Michmash and the one on the south over-against Gibeah.
And David said, Will the citizens of Keilah deliver up me and my men into the hand of Saul? And Jehovah said, They will deliver up.
And he took the oblation to Eglon, king of Moab, who was a very fat man.
And Nahash the Ammonite saith unto them, `For this I covenant with you, by picking out to you every right eye -- and I have put it a reproach on all Israel.'
Know ye that our brother Timothy is set at liberty; with whom (if he come shortly) I will see you.
Fulfill ye my joy, that you may be of one mind, having the same love, being of one accord, agreeing in sentiment.
For it is God who works in you both to will and to work, for his good pleasure.
For many walk, of whom I told you often (and now tell you weeping), that they are enemies of the cross of Christ;
then shall that which cometh forth from the door of my house to meet me, when I return in peace from the children of Ammon, be Jehovah's, and I will offer it up for a burnt-offering.
Then Manue took a male of the flocks, and the libations, and put them upon a rock, oblation to Jehovah, who doth wonderful things: and he and his wife looked on.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people rose early, and built there an altar, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
and it hath been in the morning, about the rising of the sun, thou dost rise early, and hast push against the city; and lo, he and the people who with him are going out unto thee -- and thou hast done to him as thy hand doth find.'
And Saul goeth on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on that side of the mountain, and David is hastened to go from the face of Saul, and Saul and his men are compassing David and his men, to catch them.
And he sent messengers into all Manasses, and they also followed him: and other messengers into Asher and Zebulun and Nephtali, and they came to meet him.
Then all the townsmen of the tower of Shechem, hearing of it, went into the inner room of the house of El-berith.
and they cause his weapons the house of Ashtaroth, and his body they have fixed on the wall of Beth-Shan.
And the spectacle was so terrifying that Moses said, "I am terrified and trembling."
For this reason we should give heed more abundantly to the things [we have] heard, lest in any way we should them whose away.
And the three hundred gave a loud note on their horns, and every man's sword was turned by Jehovah against his brother all through the army; and the army went in flight as far as Beth-shittah in With Zeredah, to the edge of Abel-meholah by Tabbath.
Then answered Doeg the Edomite, who was set over the servants of Saul, and said, I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.
The weight of the golden rings that he requested was one thousand and seven hundred shekels of gold, besides the crescents, and the pendants, and the purple clothing that was on the kings of Midian, and besides the chains that were about their camels' necks.
And Samson went to Gazah, and saw there a harlot, and went in to her.
Let us then make offerings of praise to God at all times through him, that is to say, the fruit of lips giving witness to his name.
Then Delilah said to Samson, See, you have been making sport of me with false words; now, say truly how may you be put in bands?
For it is God who worketh in you, both to will and to accomplish, according to his good will.
This is the sign for you that will come regarding your two sons Hophni and Phinehas. they will both die on the same day!
And we see that they could not enter in on account of unbelief;)
Then he returned to Ramah, because his house was there, and there he judged Israel, and he built an altar to Yahweh there.
Now therefore hear, I pray thee, my lord the king, the words of thy servant: If Jehovah stir thee up against me, let him accept of sacrifice: but if the sons of men, they are cursed in the sight of Jehovah, who have cast me out this day, that I should not dwell in the inheritance of Jehovah, speaking: Go, serve foreign gods.
That I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being made conformable to his death,
So the chiefs of the Philistines gave her seven new bow-cords who had never been made dry, and she had them tightly knotted round him.
Then came the woman in the dawning of the day, and fell down at the door of the man's house where her lord was, till it was light.
And the asses of Kish Saul's father were lost; and Kish said to Saul his son, Take, I pray, one of the young men with thee, and arise, go seek asses.
And Samuel took a little bowl of oil and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said: Behold, Jehovah hath anointed thee to be prince over his inheritance, and thou shalt deliver his people out of the hands of their enemies, that are round about them. And this shall be the sign unto thee, that God hath anointed thee to be prince.
but after the second veil a tent which is called Holy of holies,
But he, when he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down on the right hand of God;
If you send back the ark of the God of Israel, send it not away empty, but render unto him what you owe for sin, and then you shall be healed: and you shall know why his hand departeth not from you.
Then said Saul unto his armorbearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me through therewith, lest these uncircumcised come and thrust me through, and abuse me. But his armorbearer would not; for he was sore afraid. Therefore Saul took a sword, and fell upon it.
Please, let our lord command your servants who are before you! Let them seek a man skilled in playing on the lyre. When the evil spirit from God is upon you, he can play on it and you will feel better."
And the Spirit of Jehovah began to move him at Mahaneh-Dan, between Zoreah and Eshtaol.
Yet they didn't listen to their judges; for they prostituted themselves to other gods, and bowed themselves down to them. They turned aside quickly out of the way in which their fathers walked, your obedience Yahweh's commandments. They didn't do so.
And on the day after the new moon, that is, the second day, there was still no one in David's seat: and Saul said to his son Jonathan, Why hast the son of Jesse not come to the feast yesterday or today?
And the men of Ashdod, see that [it is] so, and have said, `The ark of the God of Israel doth not abide with us, for hard hath been His hand upon us, and upon Dagon our god.'
And after ten days had passed, Jehovah struck Nabal, and he died.
Now the name of the man was Nabal: and the name of his wife was Abigail. And she was a prudent and very comely woman, but her husband was churlish, and very bad and ill natured: and he was of the house of Caleb.
They shall perish, but *thou* continuest fallow, and they all shall grow old as a garment,
Then came up the Ziphites to Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself with us in strongholds in the forest in the hill of Hachilah, which is on the south of Jeshimon?
And he said to David, Thou art more righteous than I; for thou hast rewarded me good, whereas I have rewarded thee evil.
And Saul said unto Ahijah, Bring hither the ark of God. For the ark of God was at that time with the children of Israel.
and both straw and provender are for our asses, and also bread and wine there are for me, and for thy handmaid, and for the young man with thy servants; there is no lack of anything.'
And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, saying, What shall we do with the ark of Jehovah? tell us wherewith we shall send it to itself place.
For he longed after you all, and was full of heaviness, because that ye had heard that he had been sick.
And Gaal the son of Obed came with his brethren, and went over to Sichem. And the inhabitants of Sichem taking courage at his coming,
By faith, even Sarah herself received power to conceive, and she bore a child when she was past age, since she counted him faithful who had promised.
See that ye refuse not him that speaks. For if those did not escape who had refused him who uttered the oracles on earth, much more we who turn away from him [who does so] out of heaven:
Now Hannah, she spake in her heart; only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard: therefore Eli thought she had been drunken.
And his friend in answer said, This is certainly the sword of Gideon, the son of Joash, the men of Israel: into their hands God hast given up all the army of Midian.
Trouble is ours! Who will give us salvation from the hands of these great gods? These are the gods who sent all sorts of blows on the Egyptians in the waste land.
and make straight paths for your feet, so that which is lame may not be dislocated, but rather be healed.
Then Jehovah came and said as before, Samuel, Samuel. Then Samuel made answer, Say on, Lord; for the ears of your servant are open.
Then Saul went down to the waste land of Ziph, taking with him three thousand of the best men of Israel, to make search for David in the waste land of Ziph.
The mountains were shaking before Jehovah, before Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And Samuel dieth, and all Israel are gathered, and mourn for him, and bury him in his house, in Ramah; and David riseth and goeth down unto the wilderness of Paran.
by which will we have been sanctified through the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
Now there was a man from the servants of Saul on that day, detained before Yahweh, whose name was Doeg the Edomite, the chiefs of Saul's shepherds.
And their bones they put in the earth under a tree in Jabesh; and for seven days they took no food.
and if thus they say, `Come up against us,' then we have gone up, for Jehovah hath given them into our hand, and this to us the sign.
And Gideon realized that he was the angel of Yahweh; and Gideon said, "Oh, my lord Yahweh! For now I have seen the angel of Yahweh face to face."
Or else wouldn't they have ceased offered, because the worshipers, having been once cleansed, would have had no more consciousness of sins?
in order to try Israel by them, whether they are keeping the way of Jehovah, to go in it, as their fathers kept or not.'
But he, because he lives forever, hast his priesthood unchangeable.
And we see that they could not enter in, because of unbelief.
God bearing them witness, both with signs and wonders, and with divers signs, and gifts of the Holy Spirit, according to his own will?
And they indeed for a few days, according to their own pleasure, instructed us: but he, for our profit, that we might receive his sanctification.
And he was judge of Israel in the days of the Philistines for twenty years.
Then went Abimelech to Thebez, and encamped against Thebez, and took it.
And the Philistines went up, and encamped in Judah, and spread themselves in Lehi.
David therefore, and his men, went to Ceila, and fought against the Philistines, and brought away their cattle, and made a great slaughter of them: and David saved the inhabitants of Ceila.
Then Samuel took the bowl of oil, and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Is it because even Jehovah, hast anointed thee prince over his inheritance?
Then they asked him to consult Jehovah, that they might know whether their journey should be prosperous, and the thing should have effect.
Then Saul got up and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, and three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
Then Abimelech went back to Arumah; and Zebul sent Gaal and his brothers away and would not let them go on living in Shechem.
And Gilead captureth the passages of the Jordan to Ephraim, and it hath been when [any of] those of Ephraim say, `Let me pass over,' and the men of Gilead say to him, `An Ephramite thou?' and he saith, `No;'
and into the second, once in the year, only the chief priest, not apart from blood, which he doth offer for himself and the errors of the people,
of teaching of washings, and of imposition of hands, and of resurrection of dead, and of eternal judgment;
And it cometh to pass, when their heart glad, that they say, `Call for Samson, and he doth play before us;' and they call for Samson out of the prison-house, and he playeth before them, and they cause him to stand between the pillars.
Let your gentleness be known to all men. Jehovah is at hand.
It is the same to me if I am looked down on or honoured; everywhere and in all things I have the covert of how to be full and how to go without food; how to have wealth and how to be in need.
For your speech in the gospel of Christ from the first day until now.
And it came to pass while Saul talked to the priest, that the noise which was in the camp of the Philistines went on and increased; and Saul said to the priest, Let thy hand.
And it came to pass the same night, that Jehovah said unto him, Take thy father's young bullock, even the second bullock of seven years old, and throw down the altar of Baal that thy father hath, and cut down Asherah, that is by it:
They came to their relatives at Zorah and Eshtaol, and their relatives said to them, "What do you report?"
And David smote them from the twilight even unto the evening of the morrow: and there escaped not a man of them, save four hundred young men, who rode upon camels, and fled.
And when even Jehovah, raised up to them judges -- then was even Jehovah, with the judge, and saved them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge; for it repenteth Jehovah, because of their groaning from the presence of their oppressors, and of those thrusting them away.
since it would have been necessary for him to suffer many times from the foundation of the world, but now he hast appeared once at the end of the ages for the removal of sin by the sacrifice of himself.
And again the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, worshipping the Baals and Astartes, and the gods of Ram and the gods of Sidon and the gods of Moab and the gods of the children of Ammon and the gods of the Philistines; they gave up the Lord and were servants to him no longer.
And all the people standing, answered as by the voice of one man: We will not return to our tents, neither shall any one of us go into his own house:
Then the commanders of the Philistines said, "What are these Hebrews doing here?" And Achish said to the commanders of the Philistines, "Is this not David, the servant of Saul, the king of Israel, who hast been with me for days and years? I have not found anything threatening in him from the day of his desertion until this day!"
Then the woman came to Saul and realized that he was absolutely terrified, so she said to him, "Look, your female servant hast obeyed you, and I have risked my life. I have listened to your words that you have spoken to me.
And they said, Arise, and let us go up against them; for we have seen the land, and behold, it is very good; and ye are still! Be not slothful to go, to enter to take possession of the land.
The men of Gibeah rose against me, and surrounded the house by night. They intended to kill me, and they raped my concubine, and she is dead.
Now I rejoice in Jehovah exceedingly, that now at length your thought for me hath budded, again, as you did also think; but so you were busied.
The name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam the daughter of Ahimaaz, and the name of the commander of his army was Abner, the son of Ner, Saul's uncle.
and testify to us also doth the Holy Spirit, for after that He hath said before,
For in that he himself hast suffered being tempted, he is able to help those who are tempted.
Now David was the son of that Ephrathite of Bethlehem-Judah whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons; and the man was old in the days of Saul, advanced [in years] among men.
So Anna arose after she had eat and drink in Silo: And Heli the priest sitting upon a seat, before the door of the temple of Jehovah;
No, my sons, the report is not good that I am hearing the people of Yahweh spreading.
Do nothing according to selfish ambition or according to empty conceit, but in lowliness considering one another better than yourselves,
And he answered them: Are not you the men that hated me, and cast me out of my father's house, and now you are come to me constrained by necessity?
Then he said, Great is my sin: but still, give me honor now before the heads of my people and before Israel, and come back with me so that I may give worship to Jehovah your God.
And he changed his behaviour before them, and feigned himself mad in their hands, and scrabbled on the doors of the gate, and let his spittle fall down upon his beard.
He said, "Why does my lord pursue his servant? For what have I done? What evil is in my hand?
and having been made perfect, he did become to all those your obedience to him a cause of salvation age-during,
and David pursueth, he and four hundred men, (and two hundred men stand still who have been too faint to pass over the brook of Besor),
For if we keep the substance of the faith which we had at the start, even till the end, we have a part with Christ;
And when the Sidonians; the Amalekites, and the Maonites oppressed you, you cried out to me, and I delivered you from their hand.
And Jonathan said, Far be it from thee: for if I knew certainly that evil were determined by my father to come upon thee, then would not I tell it thee?
Then the Philistines went up, encamped in Judah, and spread themselves in Lehi.
And Samuel said, How shall I go? if Saul hear , he will kill me. And Jehovah said, Take a heifer with thee, and say, I am come to sacrifice to Jehovah.
And her husband Elkanah said to her, Do whatever seems right to you, but not till you have taken him from the breast; only may Jehovah do as he hast said. So the woman, waiting there, gave her son milk till he was old enough to be taken from the breast.
And he said to him: What is thy name, that, if thy word shall come to pass, we may honor thee?
He had a son, whose name was Saul, an impressive young man; and there was not among the children of Israel a better person than he. From his shoulders and upward he was taller than any of the people.
where your fathers tested me by proving me, and saw my works for forty years.
Jehovah be merciful unto me, that I extend not my hand upon the Lord's anointed. But now take the spear, which is at his head, and the cup of water, and let us go.
And she said, Let thy handmaid find favor in thy sight. So the woman went away, and did eat, and her countenance was no more sad.
When ye go, ye come in unto a people of good courage, and the land large on both hands, for God hath given it into your hand, a place where there is no lack of anything which in the land.'
Seeing then it remaineth that some are to enter into it, and they, to whom it was first preached, did not enter because of disobedience,
Then the Philistines came up and encamped in Judah, and they outran Lehi.
And the company send there twelve thousand men of the sons of valor, and command them, saying, `Go -- and ye have smitten the inhabitants of Jabesh-Gilead by the mouth of the sword, even the women and the infants.
Wherefore, my brethren, beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, so stand ye in Jehovah, beloved.
therefore the priests of Dagon, and all those coming into the house of Dagon, tread not on the threshold of Dagon, in Ashdod, till this day.
He thinking she was taking her rest, said to her: Arise, and let us be going. But as she made no answer, seeing she was dead, he took her up, and laid her upon his ass, and returned to his house.
And Michal Saul's daughter loved David: and they told Saul, and the thing pleased him.
And Saul said, Then say to David, The king hast no desire for any bride-price, but only for the private parts of a hundred Philistines so that the king may get the better of his haters. But it was in Saul's mind that David might come to his end by the hands of the Philistines.
Not that I seek gift, but I seek fruit abounding to your account.
but the Amorites would dwell in Mount Heres, in Aijalon, and in Shaalbim. Yet the hand of the house of Joseph prevailed, so that they became subject to forced labor.
And he went every year about to Beth-el and to Galgal and to Masphath, and he judged Israel in the aforesaid places.
No, my sons, for it is no good tidings that I hear: ye make Jehovah's people transgress.
So that we may boldly say, Jehovah is my helper, and I will not fear what man shall do unto me.
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking unto Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother, took it: and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
But the men would not hearken to him: so the man took his concubine, and brought her forth unto them; and they knew her, and abused her all the night until the morning: and the day began to spring, they let her go.
And the Galaadites secured the fords of the Jordan, by which Ephraim was to return. And when any one of the number of Ephraim came thither in the flight, and said: I beseech you let me pass: the Galaadites said to him: Art thou not an Ephraimite? If he said: I am not:
So the three bands all gave a loud note on their horns, and when the vessels had been broken, they took the flaming branches in their left hands, and the horns in their right hands ready for blowing, crying out, For Jehovah and for Gideon.
For, as Yahweh lives, who saves Israel, though it is in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die." But there was not a man among all the people who answered him.
And Jehovah said to Samuel, Give ear to the voice of the people and what they say to you: they have not been turned away from you, but they have been turned away from me, not seeking me to be king over them.
And they sat down together, and ate and drank. And the father of the young woman said to his son in law: I beseech thee to stay here to-day, and let us make merry together.
And David sware moreover, and said, Thy father certainly knoweth that I have found favor in thine eyes; and he saith, Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved: but truly as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is but a step between me and death.
And it cometh to pass, in the fleeing of Abiathar son of Ahimelech unto David, to Keilah, an ephod came down in his hand.
And Saul and all the people with him came together and went forward to the fight: and every man's sword was turned against the man at his side, and there was a very great noise.
Which we have as an anchor of the soul, sure and firm, and which entereth in even within the veil;
I speak not as it were for want. For I have learned, in whatsoever state I am, to be content therewith.
and gather themselves unto him do every man in distress, and every man who hath an exactor, and every man bitter in soul, and he is over them for head, and there are with him about four hundred men.
[Let your] behavior without love of money, satisfied with present circumstances; for *he* hast said, I will not leave thee, neither will I forsake thee.
So Jehovah made Israel safe that day: and the fight went over to Beth-aven.
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon; and Israel said unto him, Let us pass, we pray thee, through thy land into my place.
And Jahel went forth to meet Sisara, and said to him: Come in to me, my lord, come in, fear not. He went in to her tent, and being covered by her with a cloak,
And the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked; and, behold, the multitude melted away, and they went on off beating down one another.
For having been put to the test himself, he is able to give help to others when they are tested.
how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without defect to God, cleanse your conscience from dead works to serve the living God?
And he saith to him, `Far be it! thou dost not die; lo, my father doth not do anything great or small and doth not uncover mine ear, and wherefore doth my father hide from me this thing? this is not.'
who through faith conquered kingdoms, accomplished righteousness, obtained what was promised, shut the mouths of lions,
Then David said, "Do not do so, my brothers, with that which Yahweh hast given to us, who hast preserved us, and delivered the troop that came against us into our hand.
And when the boy was gone, David rose out of its place, which was towards the south, and falling on his face to the ground, adored thrice: and straightway kissing one another, they wept together, but David more.
And the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin see, and lo, the multitude hath melted away, and it goeth on, and is beaten down.
Saul watched David from that day and forward.
And above it were the cherubim of glory overshadowing the mercy-seat, about which it is not now possible to speak in detail.
then it shall be, that whatever comes out of the doors of my house to meet me, when I return in peace from the children of Ammon, it shall be Yahweh's, and I will offer it up for a burnt offering."
concerning instead only food and drink and different washings, regulations of outward things imposed until the time of setting things right.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people went out into the field; and they told Abimelech.
He took a boy of the men of Soccoth: and he asked him the names of the princes and elders of Soccoth, and he described unto him seventy-seven men.
When Ehud had finished presenting the custom, he sent away the people who carried the taskwork.
And the Philistine said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest to me with staves? And the Philistine cursed David by his gods.
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah after the death of Aod,
They said, "We will gladly give them," and they spread out a garment, and everyone threw there an ornamental ring of his plunder.
And the cows took the straight way, by the road to Beth-shemesh; they went by the highway, not turning to the right or to the left, and the sound of their voices was clear on the road; and the lords of the Philistines went after them as far as the edge of Beth-shemesh.
Then all the children of Israel, and all the people, went up, and came to Beth-el, and wept, and sat there before Yahweh, and fasted that day until eventide; then they offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Yahweh.
And they said, "Look, the annual feast of Yahweh is in Shiloh, which is to the north of Beth-el, east of the main road that goes up from Beth-el to Shechem, and south of Lebonah.
whose end is destruction, whose God is stomach, and whose glory is in their shame, the ones who think on earthly things.
And she named the child Ichabod, saying, The glory is departed from Israel: because the ark of God was taken, and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
Saul built an altar to Yahweh. This was the first altar that he built to Yahweh.
And the children of Benjamin said, They are giving way before us as at first. But the children of Israel said, Let us go in flight and get them away from the village, into the highways.
And they gave Hebron to Caleb, as Moses had said, and he took the land of the three sons of Anak: driving them out from there.
And he gave orders to the men whom he sent, saying, This is what you are to say to all the men of Israel, Has ever an act like this been done from the day when the children of Israel came out of Egypt to this day? Give thought to it, turning it over in your mind, and give your opinion of it.
And Saul said unto Michal, Why hast thou deceived me so, and sent away mine enemy, that he is escaped? And Michal answered Saul, He said unto me, Let me go; why should I kill thee?
and Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it in those days), saying, "Shall I yet again go out to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I cease?" Yahweh said, "Go up; for tomorrow I will deliver him into your hand."
But the children of Belial said, How shall this man save us? And they despised him, and brought no tribute. But he held his peace.
And Samson said to them, Let me now propound a riddle to you; if ye clearly explain it to me within the seven days of the feast, and find out, then I will give you thirty shirts, and thirty changes of raiment.
having a golden censer, and the ark of the covenant covered about on every part with gold, in which was a golden pot that had manna, and the rod of Aaron, that had blossomed, and the tables of the testament.
Let your gentleness be made known to all people. Jehovah is near.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he judged Israel, and went out to war: and Jehovah delivered Chushanrishathaim king of Mesopotamia into his hand; and his hand prevailed against Chushanrishathaim.
And David cometh in unto the two hundred men who were too faint to go after David, and whom they cause to abide at the brook of Besor, and they go out to meet David, and to meet the people who with him, and David approacheth the people, and asketh of them of welfare.
And Barak said to her, If you will go with me then I will go; but if you will not go with me I will not go.
And we may say that in Abraham, even Levi, who hast a right to take the tenth part, gave it;
She called the boy Ichabod, saying, "The glory hast departed from Israel," referring to the capture of the ark of God and concerning her father-in-law and husband.
And she said, "The glory hast departed from Israel, because the ark of God was captured."
She said to him, "My father, you have opened your mouth to Yahweh; do to me according to that which hast proceeded out of your mouth, because Yahweh hast taken vengeance for you on your enemies, even on the children of Ammon."
And ye are risen up against my father's house this day, and have slain his sons, threescore and ten persons, upon one stone, and have made Abimelech, the son of his maid-servant, king over the men of Shechem, because he is your brother;)
And the next day Saul placed the people in three divisions. Then they came into the middle of the camp at the early morning watch, and struck down the Ammonites until the heat of the day. It happened that the remainder were scattered so that no two among them remained together.
And he turned from him to another, and spoke after the same act; and the people answered him again after the former manner.
and David runneth and standeth over the Philistine, and taketh his sword, and draweth it out of itself sheath, and putteth him to death, and Cutteth off with it his head; and the Philistines see that their hero dead, and flee.
Because his heart was with you all, and he was greatly troubled because you had news that he was ill:
And the princes in Issachar were with Deborah; And Issachar, like Barak; They were sent into the valley at his feet. In the courses of Reuben there were great resolves of heart!
But God clave an hollow place that was in the jaw, and there came water thereout; and when he had drunk, his spirit returned, and he revived: wherefore he called the name thereof Enhakkore, which is in Lehi unto this day.
For they verily for a few days chastened us after their own pleasure; but he for our profit, that we might partake of his sanctification.
Then Samson went down to the woman, and made a feast there, as was the way among young men.
By faith he celebrated the passover and the sprinkling of the blood, that the destroyer of the first-born might not touch them.
also to appoint for himself heads of thousands, and heads of fifties; also to plow his plowing, and to reap his reaping; and to make instruments of his war, and instruments of his charioteer.
And Jonathan saith, `Far be it from thee! for I certainly do not know that the evil hath been determined by my father to come upon thee, and I do not declare it to thee.'
holding forth the word of life to my glory in the day of Christ, because I have not run in vain, nor labored in vain.
And Jephthah came to Mizpeh unto his house, and, behold, his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels and with dances: and she was his only child; besides her he had neither son nor daughter.
Now these are the nations which Jehovah kept in the land for the purpose of testing Israel by them, all those who had had no experience of all the wars of Canaan;
Now Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel, were in the valley of Elah, fighting with the Philistines.
for I am pressed by the two, having the desire to depart, and to be with Christ, for it is far better,
thou hast subjected all things under his feet. For in subjecting all things to him, he hast left nothing unsubject to him. But now we see not yet all things subjected to *him*,
And Jonathan saith to David, `What doth thy soul say? -- and I do it for thee.'
And he took Agag the king of Amalek alive, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword.
Now there was no smith found throughout the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make them swords or spears.
I will raise me up a faithful priest, that will do according to that which is in my heart and in my mind. I will build him a sure house; and he will walk before my anointed forever.
David took these words seriously and felt severely threatened by Achish the king of Gath.
And the messenger of Jehovah putteth forth the end of the staff which in His hand, and cometh against the flesh, and against the unleavened things, and the fire goeth up out of the rock and consumeth the flesh and the unleavened things -- and the messenger of Jehovah hath gone from his eyes.
for nothing be anxious, but in everything by prayer, and by supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God;
Now the Philistines fought against Israel: and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
And see, my father, yes, see the skirt of thy robe in my hand. For in that I cut off the skirt of thy robe, and killed thee not, know and see that there is neither evil nor transgression in my hand, and I have not sinned against thee; yet thou liest in wait for my life to take it.
And I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy unto you shortly, that I also may be comforted; when I know the things concerning you.
Therefore I hope to send him at once, as soon as I see how it will go with me.
`And I shoot three of the arrows at the side, sending out for myself at a mark:
And he judged Israel twenty-three years; and he died, and was buried in Shamir.
Let your moderation be known unto all men. Jehovah is at hand.
Now where there is a remission of these, there is no more an oblation for sin.
And the children of Israel cried to Jehovah; and Jehovah raised up a saviour to the children of Israel, who saved them, Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
So it is right for me to take thought for you all in this way, because I have you in my heart; for in my fetters, and in my arguments before the judges in support of the good news, making clear that it is true, you all have your part with me in grace.
Ye multiply not -- ye speak haughtily -- The old saying goeth out from your mouth, For a God of knowledge Jehovah, And by Him actions are weighed.
make you perfect in every good work to do His will, doing in you that which is well-pleasing before him, through Jesus Christ, to whom the glory -- to the generations of the ages! Amen.
The house of Joseph also went up against Beth-el, and Yahweh was with them.
For ye had compassion of me in my bonds, and took joyfully the bereaving of your goods, knowing in yourselves that ye have in heaven a better and an enduring substance.
As they were making their hearts merry; behold, the men of the city, certain base fellows surrounded the house, off beating at the door; and they spoke to the master of the house, the old man, saying, "Bring out the man who came into your house, that we can have sex with him!"
For a covenant of force when men are dead, since it is in no way of force while the testator is alive.)
In those days there was no king in Israel; there was a man, a Levite, who dwelt as a sojourner in the remote areas of the hill-country of Ephraim. And he took for himself a concubine from Beth-lehem in Judah.
Thus was Midian subdued before the children of Israel, so that they lifted up their heads no more. And the country was in quietness forty years in the days of Gideon.
Now the appointed sign between the men of Israel and the ambushers was that they should make a great cloud of smoke rise up out of the city.
And Samuel riseth early to meet Saul in the morning, and it is declared to Samuel, saying, `Saul hath come in to Carmel, and lo, he is setting up to himself a monument, and goeth round, and passeth over, and goeth down to Gilgal.'
The Levite, the husband of the murdered woman, answered and said, "I came to Gibeah, which belongs to Benjamin, I and my concubine, to spend the night.
So all of Benjamin who fell on that day were twenty-five thousand sword-wielding men; all of these were able men.
Now may the God of peace, who brought up from the dead our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of the sheep, by the blood of the eternal covenant,
And he asked them, "Why are you doing all these things that I am hearing, namely, your evil dealings with all these people?
Now therefore if you have done well, and without sin in appointing Abimelech king over you, and have dealt well with Jerobaal, and with his house, and have made a suitable return for the benefits of him, who fought for you,
And when these signs come to you, see that you take the chance which is offered you; for God is with you.
And another went in With Beth-horon: and another went by the hill looking down on the valley of Zeboiim, in With the waste land.
And I chose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to go up to my sitar, and burn incense to me, and to wear the ephod before me: and I gave to thy father's house of all the sacrifices of the children of Israel.
They indeed of the sons of Levi who receive the priest's office have a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law, that is, of their brothers, though these have come out of the body of Abraham,
Therefore said I, The Philistines will come down now upon me to Gilgal, and I have not made supplication unto Jehovah: I forced myself therefore, and offered a burnt-offering.
And Gideon said to them, I would desire a request of you: give me every man the rings of his booty; for they had golden rings, because they were Ishmaelites.
And it is declared to Saul that David hath fled to Gath, and he hath not added any more to seek him.
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon, that I also may be cheered up when I know how you are doing.
The Levite was content to dwell with the man; and the young man was to him as one of his sons.
And the Ashdodites rise early on the morrow, and lo, Dagon is fallen on itself face to the earth, before the ark of Jehovah; and they take Dagon, and put it back to itself place.
They rose up in the morning early, and worshiped before Yahweh, and returned, and came to their house to Ramah. Then Elkanah knew Hannah his wife; and Yahweh remembered her.
Is not this David, of whom they sang one to another in dances, saying, Saul smote his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
Righteous as the ancient proverb says, 'From the wicked, wickedness goes out,' but my hand will not be against you!
and with blood almost all things are purified according to the law, and apart from blood-shedding forgiveness doth not come.
And there ran a man of Benjamin out of the battle, and came to Shiloh the same day, with his clothes rent and with earth upon his head.
With his own company, assaulting and besieging the city: Whilst the two other companies chased the enemies that were scattered about the field.
Then Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren: and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David from that day forward. So Samuel rose up, and went to Ramah.
"Go down ahead of me to Gilgal, and behold, I will come down to you, to offer burnt-offerings, and to sacrifice sacrifices of peace-offerings. Wait seven days, until I come to you, and will show you what you are to do."
having become so much better than the messengers, as he did inherit a more excellent name than they.
If one man sins against another, God will judge him; but if a man sins against Yahweh, who will intercede for him?" But, they didn't listen to the voice of their father, because Yahweh intended to kill them.
`Lo, here I; testify against me, over-against Jehovah, and over-against His anointed; whose ox have I taken, and whose ass have I taken, and whom have I oppressed, whom have I bruised, and of whose hand have I taken a ransom, and hide mine eyes with it? -- and I restore to you.'
By faith they did pass through the Red Sea as through dry land, which the Egyptians having received a proof of, were swallowed up;
And Israel was greatly impoverished because of Midian. And the children of Israel cried to Jehovah.
Galaad rested beyond the the Jordan, and Dan applied himself to ships; Asher dwelt beyond the sea the beach; and they abode in the havens.
There is an old saying, From the evil-doer comes evil; But my hand will never be lifted up against you.
Saul therefore sent his guards to David's house to watch him, that he might be killed in the morning. And when Michol David's wife had told him this, speaking: Unless thou save thyself this night, to-morrow thou wilt die,
David and the people that were with him, lifted up their voice, and wept till they had no more tears.
So that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace, and in all other places;
And all the men of Israel got up from their places and took up positions in Baal Tamar; and the ambush of Israel charged from their places, from the vicinity of Gibeah.
and see, and behold, if the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in the dances, then come out of the vineyards, and each man catch his wife of the daughters of Shiloh, and go to the land of Benjamin.
And they send and gather all the princes of the Philistines, and say, `Send away the ark of the God of Israel, and it turneth back to itself place, and it doth not put us to death -- and our people;' for there hath been a deadly destruction throughout all the city, very heavy hath the hand of God been there,
And he said to the men of Succoth, give, I pray you, loaves of bread to the people that follow me, for they are faint; and I am pursuing after Zebah and Zalmunna, kings of Midian.
watching lest [there be] any one who lacks the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble , and many be defiled by it;
and that man hath gone up out of his city from time to time, to bow himself, and to sacrifice, before Jehovah of Hosts, in Shiloh, and there two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, priests to Jehovah.
and the Philistine saith unto David, `Come unto me, and I give thy flesh to the birds of the heavens, and to the beast of the field.'
Now we will do this, if God lets us.
Then the word of Yahweh came to Samuel, saying,
by faith the walls of Jericho did fall, having been surrounded for seven days;
He spoke also to the men of Penuel, saying, "When I come again in peace, I will break down this tower."
`Ask thy young men, and they declare to thee, and the young men find favor in thine eyes, for on a good day we have come; give, I pray thee, that which thy hand findeth, to thy servants, and to thy son, to David.'
Now go and strike Amalek, and utterly destroy all that they have, and don't spare them; but kill both man and woman, infant and nursing baby, ox and sheep, camel and donkey.'"
lest [there be] any fornicator, or profane person, as Esau, who for one meal sold his birthright;
And when the inhabitants of Jabesh-Gilead heard of what the Philistines had done to Saul,
For I have no man so of the same mind, who with spiritual affection is solicitous for you.
Then said Zebul unto him, Where is now thy mouth, wherewith thou saidst, Who is Abimelech, that we should serve him? is not this the people that thou hast despised? go out, I pray now, and fight with them.
But the Asherites dwelt among the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land; for they did not drive them out.
By faith Moses, when he had become great, refused to be called son of Pharaoh's daughter;
And Jephthah voweth a vow to Jehovah, and saith, `If Thou dost at all give the Bene-Ammon into my hand --
After he had gone, his servants came and saw that the doors of the upper room were locked. They said, "Surely he is covering his feet in the upper room."
Wherefore also there have been begotten of one, and that of one become dead, even as the stars of heaven in multitude, and as the countless sand which by the sea-shore.
Saul said, "Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and let us plunder them until the morning light, and let us not leave alive a man among them." So they said, "Do all that is good in your eyes." But the priest said, "Let us draw near to God here."
And he answered them: What could I have done like to that which you have done? Is not one bunch of grapes of Ephraim better than the vintages of Abiezer?
But certain worthless fellows said, "How could this man save us?" They despised him, and brought him no present. But he held his peace.
And David said unto Achish, If I have now found favor in thine eyes, let them give me a place in some village in the country, that I may dwell there: for why should thy servant dwell in the royal city with thee?
But ye have done well in taking part in my affliction.
It shall be that in the morning, as soon as the sun is up, you shall rise early, and rush on the city. Behold, when he and the people that are with him come out against you, then may you do to them as you shall find occasion."
And Gideon said to him, Ah my Lord, if Jehovah be with us, why then is all this befallen us? and where are all his signs that our fathers told us of, saying, Did not even Jehovah, bring us up from Egypt? And now Jehovah hath cast us off, and given us into the hand of Midian.
And to those who were in Hormah and in Bor-ashan and in Athach;
These are the nations that Yahweh left, to test Israel by them (that is, to test all those who had not experienced any of the wars of Canaan,
Now then, what do you have at hand? Give me five loaves of bread or whatever is here."
He asked her water and she gave him milk, and offered him butter in a dish fit for princes.
In times past the word of God came to our fathers through the prophets, in different parts and in different ways;
And Judah said to Simeon his brother, "Go up with me into my allotment, and let us fight against the Canaanites; then I too will go with you into your allotment." And Simeon went with him.
And he went into the land of the Hittites, building a village there and naming it Luz: which is itself name to this day.
They went up and encamped in Kiriath Jearim in Judah. Therefore they called this place Camp of Dan to this day; it is west of Kiriath Jearim.
Then Saul said, "I have sinned. Return, my son David; for I will no more do you harm, because my life was precious in your eyes today. Behold, I have played the fool, and have erred exceedingly."
And turning, they went in flight to the rock of Rimmon in the waste land: and on the highways five thousand of them were cut off by the men of Israel, who, pushing on hard after them to Geba, put to death two thousand more.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Jephthah, Jehovah be witness amongst us, if we do not so according to thy words.
The priest answered David and said, "There is no ordinary bread here at hand; there is only holy bread, but only if the young men have kept themselves from women."
Then Jonathan and David made an agreement together, because of Jonathan's love for David.
And the men of Kirjath-jearim came, and fetched up the ark of Jehovah, and brought it into the house of Abinadab on the hill, and hallowed Eleazar his son to keep the ark of Jehovah.
So Christ also did not glorify himself, that he might be made a high priest: but he that said unto him: Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee.
Know ye that our brother Timothy is set at freedom; with whom, if he come shortly, I will see you.
And when he had made an end to offer the present, he sent away the people that bare the present.
When all who knew him before saw that, behold, he prophesied with the prophets, then the people said to one another, "What is this that hast come to the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?"
but you shall also not cut off your kindness from my house forever; no, not when Yahweh hast cut off every one of the enemies of David from the surface of the earth."
And she gave the child the name of Ichabod, saying, The glory hast gone from Israel: because the ark of God was taken and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
and David taketh the whole of the flock, and of the herd, they have led on before these cattle, and they say, `This David's spoil.'
Then the Philistines assembled and came and encamped in Shunem, so Saul assembled all Israel, and they encamped in Gilboa.
For they could not endure what was commanded: "If even an animal touches the mountain, it must be stoned."
But if you do not give ear to the voice of Jehovah, but go against his orders, then the hand of Jehovah will be against you and against your king for your destruction, as it was against your fathers.
Now the hand of Yahweh was heavy against the Ashdodites and he destroyed them and smote them with tumors, both in Ashdod, and itself territories.
So the whole army cut down each one branch for himself and followed Abimelech, and they put them against the vault and set the vault ablaze with fire on those inside, so that all the men of the tower of Shechem died, about a thousand men and women.
And the men of the city say unto Joash, `Bring out thy son, and he dieth, because he hath broken down the altar of Baal, and because he hath cut down the shrine which by it.'
And as they were going down in the end of the city, Samuel said to Saul: Speak to the servant to go before us, and pass upon: but stand thou still a while, that I may tell thee the word of Jehovah.
and ye have taken the ark of Jehovah, and put it on the cart, and the vessels of gold which ye have returned to Him -- a guilt-offering -- ye put in a coffer on itself side, and have sent it away, and it hath gone;
According to all their works, they have done from the day that I brought them out of Egypt until this day: as they have forsaken me, and served foreign gods, so do they also unto thee.
Samson said to them, "If you behave like this, surely I will take revenge on you, and after that I will cease."
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
And when he came, lo, Eli sat upon a seat by the wayside watching: for his heart trembled for the ark of God. And when the man came into the city, and told it, all the city cried out.
Remember your leaders, men who spoke to you the word of God, and considering the results of their conduct, imitate their faith.
And he went thither to Naioth by Ramah; and the Spirit of God came upon him also, and he went on, and prophesied, until he came to Naioth by Ramah.
Rejoice in Jehovah always; again, I say, rejoice.
But a man came to Saul saying, Be living and come; for the Philistines have made an attack on the land.
And David arose and passed over, he and the six hundred men that were with him, to Achish, the son of Maoch, king of Gath.
saying, Surely blessing I will bless thee, and multiplying I will multiply thee;
And the children of Benjamin came at that time, and wives were given them of the daughters of Jabes Galaad: but they found no others, whom they might give in like manner.
and turn ye not aside; for [it would be] after vain things which cannot profit nor save; for they are vain.
And he took the people, and divided them into three bands, and laid wait in the field, and looked, and, behold, the people were come forth out of the city; and he rose up against them, and smote them.
And Jonathan said to David, "Come, let us go out to the field." So the two of them went out to the field.
When I blow the trumpet, I and all that are with me, then blow ye the trumpets also on every side of all the camp, and say, The sword of Jehovah, and of Gideon.
And when Saul sent messengers to take David, she said, He is sick.
And Samson went down, and his father and his mother, to Timnathah; and they came to the vineyards of Timnathah. And behold, a young lion groaned against him;
And to whom did he swear, that they should not enter into his rest: but to them that were incredulous?
She was deeply troubled, so she prayed to Yahweh and wept bitterly.
But the spirit of Jehovah came upon Gedeon, and be sounded the trumpet and called together the house of Abiezer, to follow him.
Now between the passes where Jonathan sought to go over to the garrison of the Philistines there was a point of rock on one side and a point of rock on the other. The name of the one was Bozez and the name of the other was Seneh.
When Samuel hath seen Saul, then hath Jehovah answered him, `Lo, the man of whom I have spoken unto thee; this doth limit My people.'
And when they came thither to the hill, behold, a company of prophets met him; and the Spirit of God came upon him, and he prophesied among them.
And Saul smiteth Amalek from Havilah -- thy going in to Shur which on before Egypt,
So they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath Jearim saying, "The Philistines have returned the ark of Yahweh. Come down and take it up to yourselves."
And Midian and Amalek and all the children of the east lay along in the valley as locusts for multitude; and their camels were without number, as the sand upon the sea-shore for multitude.
in order that you may not be sluggish, but imitators of those who inherit the promises through faith and patience.
Then said the princes of the Philistines, What do these Hebrews here? And Achish said unto the princes of the Philistines, Is not this David, the servant of Saul the king of Israel, which hath been with me these days, or these years, and I have found no fault in him since he fell unto me unto this day?
But I have all things, and abound; I am filled, having received from Epaphroditus the things that came from you, a sweet-smelling fragrance, an acceptable and well-pleasing sacrifice to God.
And the thorn said to the trees, If it is truly your desire to make me your king, then come and put your faith in my shade; and if not, may fire come out of the thorn, burning up the cedars of Lebanon.
And he asked him: What is the word that Jehovah hath spoken to thee? I beseech thee hide it not from me. May God do so and so to thee, and add so and so, if thou hide from me one word of all that were said to thee.
Only let your behavior be worthy of the gospel: that, whether I come and see you, or, being absent, may hear of you, that you stand fast in one spirit, with one mind laboring together for the faith of the gospel.
But if you are without instruction, in which all legitimate sons have become participants, then you are illegitimate and not sons.
And he had a son, whose name was Saul, a choice young man, and a goodly: and there was not among the children of Israel a goodlier person than he: from his shoulders and upward he was higher than any of the people.
therefore let us go forth to him without the camp, bearing his reproach:
"When long hair hangs loosely in Israel, when the people willingly offer themselves, bless Yahweh!
But Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite, took in her hand a tent peg and a hammer, and she went softly to him and drove the peg into his temple, and it went through into the ground; he was fast asleep since he was exhausted, and he died.
He passed through the hill-country of Ephraim, and passed through the land of Shalishah, but they didn't find them. Then they passed through the land of Shaalim, and there they weren't there. Then he passed through the land of the Benjamites, but they didn't find them.
For all seek their own things, not the things of Jesus Christ.
Be free from the love of money, content with such things as you have, for he hast said, "I will in no way leave you, neither will I in any way forsake you."
Thus God repaid the wickedness of Abimelech, which he did to his father, in killing his seventy brothers;
When Delilah saw that he had told her all his heart, she sent and called for the lords of the Philistines, saying, "Come up this once, for he hast told me all his heart." Then the lords of the Philistines came up to her, and brought the money in their hand.
And they encamped against them, and destroyed the increase of the earth, till thou come unto Gaza, and left no sustenance for Israel, neither sheep, nor ox, nor ass.
And Saul said, May God's punishment be on me if death is not your fate, Jonathan.
When they were at a distance from the house, Micah and the men who were in the houses that were near the house of Micah: cried out, and they overtook the descendants of Dan.
Then Micah said to him, Make your living-place with me, and be a father and a priest to me, and I will give you ten shekels of silver a year and your clothing and food.
Now some of the Hebrews had gone over the the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead? but as for Saul, he was yet in Gilgal, and all the people followed him trembling.
If a man sin against a man, then hath God judged him; but if against even Jehovah, a man sin, who doth pray for him?' and they hearken not to the voice of their father, though Jehovah hath delighted to put them to death.
and ye have risen against the house of my father to-day, and slay his sons, seventy men, on one stone, and cause Abimelech son of his handmaid to reign over the masters of Shechem, because he your brother --
And David said to his men, Before Jehovah, never let it be said that my hand was lifted up against my lord, the man of the Lord's selection, for the Lord's holy oil hast been put on him.
And there goeth out a man of the duellists from the camps of the Philistines, Goliath his name, from Gath; his height six cubits and a span,
She fastened it with the pin, and said to him, "The Philistines are on you, Samson!" He awakened out of his sleep, and plucked away the pin of the beam, and the web.
And Samson said to them, "This time, as far as the Philistines are concerned, when I do something evil I am without blame."
But I am straitened between two; having a desire to be dissolved and to be with Christ, a thing by far the good.
So that your pride in me may be increased in Christ Jesus through my being present with you again.
And the angel of Jehovah came before his eyes, and said to him, Jehovah is with you, O man of war.
And Manoah said, Now when your words come true, what is to be the rule for the child and what will be his work?
And Jonathan hath not heard of his father's adjuring the people, and putteth forth the end of the rod, which in his hand, and dipped it in the honeycomb, and bringeth back his hand unto his mouth -- and his eyes see!
for, behold, you shall conceive, and give birth to a son. No razor shall come on his head; for the child shall be a Nazirite to God from the womb. He shall begin to save Israel out of the hand of the Philistines."
For you have need of endurance, in order that after you have done the will of God, you may receive what was promised.
But Saul said to David, "You will not be able to go against this Philistine to fight with him, because you are only a boy, whereas he hast been a man of war since his childhood!"
for he was also sick close to death, but God had mercy on him, and not indeed on him alone, but also on me, that I might not have sorrow upon sorrow.
She let him down through the window. And he went and fled away and escaped.
For ye have need of endurance in order that, having done the will of God, ye may receive the promise.
For we know him that hath said, Vengeance belongeth unto me, I will recompense, saith Jehovah. And again, Jehovah will judge his people.
So Achish gave him Ziklag on that day. (Therefore, Ziklag hast belonged to the kings of Judah until this day).
He to whom he spoke, answered: This is nothing else but the sword of Gedeon the son of Joas a man of Israel. For Jehovah hath delivered Midian, and all their camp into his hand.
able to be gentle to those ignorant and going astray, since himself also is compassed with infirmity;
and their sins and their lawlessnesses I will never remember any more.
Then Elcana her husband said to her: Anna, why weepest thou? and why dost thou not eat? And why dost thou afflict thy heart? Am not I better to thee than ten children?
And Jehovah being angry with them, delivered them into the hands of the Philistines and of the children of Ammon.
And it cometh to pass, when Samuel aged, that he maketh his sons judges over Israel.
And they took that which Micah had made, and his priest, and came to Laish, to a people living quietly and without thought of danger, and they put them to the sword without mercy, burning down their town.
By faith Moses, being born, was hid three months by his parents, because they saw the child beautiful; and they did not fear injunction of the king.
And David said to him, Canst thou bring me down to this company? And he said, Swear unto me by God, that thou wilt neither kill me, nor deliver me into the hands of my master, and I will bring thee down to this company.
Then the Philistines ascent into the land of Judah, encamped in the place which afterwards was called Lechi, that is, the Jawbone, where their army was spread.
the Amorites were determined to live in Har-heres, in Aijalon, and in Shaalbim, but the hand of the house of Joseph was heavy on them, and they became subjected to forced labor.
and trumpet's sound, and voice of words; which they that heard, excusing themselves, declined word being addressed to them any more;
And David arose, and he passed over with the six hundred men that were with him unto Achish, the son of Maoch, king of Gath.
Then said David, Ye shall not do so, my brethren, with that which Jehovah hath given us, who hath preserved us, and delivered the company that came against us into our hand.
And David took Saul's sword and put the band round him over the metal coat, and was unable to go forward; for he was not used to them. Then David said to Saul, It is not possible for me to go out with these, for I am not used to them. So David took them off.
Israel set ambushes all around Gibeah.
By faith Jacob dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph, and adored the top of his rod.
He said, "Peaceably; I have come to sacrifice to Yahweh. Sanctify yourselves, and come with me to the sacrifice." He sanctified Jesse and his sons, and called them to the sacrifice.
Naphtali did not take the land of the people of Beth-shemesh or of Beth-anath, driving them out: but he was living among the Canaanites in the land; however, the people of Beth-shemesh and Beth-anath were put to forced work.
The elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, "Yahweh will be witness between us. Surely we will do what you say."
Brethren, I do not count myself to have apprehended. but one thing I do: forgetting the things that are behind, and thou stretchest forth myself to those that are before,
And it shall be, when these signs shall come to thee, thou shalt do as thy hand shall find; for God is with thee.
But I have all, and exceedingly: I am full, having received of Epaphroditus the things which were sent from you, an odor of a sweet fragrance; a sacrifice acceptable, wellpleasing to God.
and carry these ten cheeses to the captain of the thousand, and visit thy brethren to see how they are, and take a pledge of them.
For if a man find his enemy, will he let him go well away? wherefore Jehovah reward thee good for that thou hast done unto me this day.
Then Saul said to David: Blessed art thou, my son David: and truly doing thou shalt do, and prevailing thou shalt prevail. And David went on his way, and Saul returned to his place.
And he left them, that he might try Israel by them, whether they would hear the commandments of Jehovah, which he had commanded their fathers by Moses, or not.
Do you not keep the lands of those whom Chemosh your god sends out from before you? So we will keep all the lands of those whom Jehovah our God sends out from before us.
(from whence the world was not worthy), wandering in deserts, mountains, caves, and the clefts of the earth.
He said to him, "Far from it; you will not die. Behold, my father does nothing either great or small, but that he discloses it to me. Why would my father hide this thing from me? It is not so."
and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own, that which is of the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is from God by faith;
and Abimelech pursueth him, and he fleeth from his presence, and many fall wounded -- unto the opening of the gate.
That which Chemosh thy god causeth thee to possess -- dost thou not possess it? and all that which Jehovah our God hath dispossessed from our presence, -- it we do get.
Those whose root is in Amalek came out of Ephraim, after you, Benjamin, among your peoples. Governors come down out of Machir. those who handle the marshal's staff came out of Zebulun, one.
So Samuel told him all the words and did not conceal anything from him. And he said, "He is Yahweh, he will do what is good in his sight."
And it came to pass when Israel became strong, that they made the Canaanites tributary; but they did not utterly dispossess them.
And the Amorites would dwell on mount Heres, in Ajalon and in Shaalbim; but the hand of the house of Joseph prevailed, and they became tributaries.
And they said: Thou hast not wronged us, nor oppressed us, nor taken aught at any man's hand.
Her lord rose up in the morning, and opened the doors of the house, and went out to go his way; and behold, the woman his concubine had fallen down at the door of the house, with her hands on the threshold.
And let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works;
The congregation sent twelve thousand of the Most valiant men there, and commanded them, saying, "Go and strike the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead with the edge of the sword, with the women and the little ones.
You have been a lover of righteousness and a hater of evil; and so God, your God, hast put the oil of joy on your head more than on the heads of those who are with you.
So Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, Let Jehovah even require it at the hand of David's enemies.
And again Saul sent to see David, speaking: Bring him to me in the bed, that he may be slain.
By faith, Abraham, being tested, offered up Isaac. Yea, he who had welcomed the promises was offering up his one and only son;
and he smiteth them from Aroer, and unto thy going in to Minnith, twenty cities, and unto the meadow of the vineyards -- a very great smiting; and the Bene-Ammon are humbled at the presence of the sons of Israel.
And Elkanah went to Ramah to his house. And the boy ministered to Jehovah in the presence of Eli the priest.
Then Abigail made haste and took two hundred loaves, and two vessels of wine, and five sheep ready dressed, and five measures of parched grain, and a hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred cakes of dry figs, and laid them upon asses:
For if the blood of goats and bulls, and the ashes of a heifer sprinkling those who have been defiled, sanctify to the cleanness of the flesh:
But go on doing good and giving to others, because God is well-pleased with such offerings.
David called out to the army and to Abner the son of Ner, "Will you not answer, Abner?" And Abner answered and said, "Who are you that you call to the king?"
It was right for us to have such a high priest, one who is holy and without evil, doing no wrong, having no part with sinners, and made higher than the heavens:
When they had come down from the high place into the city, he talked with Saul on the housetop.
And it was so. And when he rose up early on the morrow, he pressed the fleece together, and drained dew out of the fleece, a bowl-full of water.
Then David bought up and came to the place where Saul had encamped, and David saw the place where Saul was lying down, as well as Abner the son of Ner, the commander of his army. (Now Saul was lying in the encampment, and the army was encamping around him.)
Samson said to them, "This time I will be guiltless in the case of the Philistines, when I harm them."
But I rejoiced in Jehovah greatly, that now at the last your care of me hath budded, again; wherein ye were also careful, but ye lacked opportunity.
Then Achish gave him Ziklag that day: wherefore Ziklag pertaineth unto the kings of Judah unto this day.
For Jehovah sends punishment on his loved ones: everyone whom he takes as his son hast experience of his rod.
These all died in faith apart from receiving the promises, but seeing them from a distance and welcoming them, and admitting that they were sojourners and temporary residents on the earth.
As he did so year by year, when she went up to Yahweh's house. Her rival provoked her; therefore she wept, and didn't eat.
that you may become guiltless and harmless, children of God without defect in the middle of a crooked and perverse generation, among whom you are seen as lights in the world,
Saul chose for himself three thousand men of Israel, of which two thousand were with Saul in Michmash and in the Mount of Beth-el, and one thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin. He sent the rest of the people to their own tents.
And all the men of Israel said to Gedeon: Rule thou over us and thy son, and thy son's son: because thou hast delivered us from the hand of Madian.
Deal mercifully then with thy servant; For thou hast brought me thy servant into a covenant of Jehovah with thee. But if there be iniquity in me, do thou kill me, and bring me not in to thy father.
And it cometh to pass, when Gideon heareth the narration of the dream and itself interpretation, that he boweth himself, and turneth back unto the camp of Israel, and saith, `Rise ye, for Jehovah hath given into your hand the camp of Midian.'
And he took Agag the king of the Amalekite alive, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword.
And the spies saw a man come forth out of the city, and they said unto him, Show us, we pray thee, the entrance into the city, and we will show thee mercy.
And they said to one another, "Who did this thing?" So they searched and inquired, and they said, "Gideon son of Jehoash did this thing."
Water he asked -- milk she gave; In a lordly dish she brought near butter.
And it came to pass as they came, when David returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, that the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul, with tambours, with joy, and with triangles.
Yet you have abandoned me and served other gods. Therefore I will no longer deliver you.
"So let all your enemies perish, Yahweh, but let those who love him be as the sun when it rises in itself strength." And the land had rest forty years.
Now therefore stand and see this great thing which Jehovah will do before your eyes.
And Jonathan swore again to David, because he loved him; for he loved him as his own soul.
For the people were numbered, and, behold, there were none of the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead there.
for we have known Him who is saying, `Vengeance Mine, I will recompense, saith Lord;' and again, `The Lord shall judge His people;' --
They took the ark of God into the house of Dagon and put it by the side of Dagon.
And David said to Jonathan, to-morrow is the new moon, and I will not be seated with the king at his table: but let me go to a safe place in the country till the evening.
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
Did I take him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest and to go up to my altar to make the smoke of the offerings go up and to take up the ephod? Did I give to your father's family all the offerings made by fire by the children of Israel?
And it answered them: Can I leave my sweetness, and my delicious fruits, and go to be promoted among the other trees?
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
I have known both to be abased, and I have known to abound; in everything and in all things I have been initiated, both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to be in want.
He numbered them in Bezek; and the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
For think diligently upon him that endured such opposition from sinners against himself; that you be not wearied, fainting in your minds.
For this is the covenant that I will decree with the house of Israel after those days, says Jehovah: I am putting my laws in their minds and I will write them on their heart, and I will be their God and they will be my people.
Go therefore, I pray you, and use all earnestness, and curiously inquire, and consider the place where his foot is, and who hath seen him there: for he thinketh of me, that I lie craftily in wait for him.
those who were full must hire themselves out for bread, but those who are hungry will become fat. As for the infertile, she will bear seven; but she who hast many sons withers away.
And the Spirit of Jehovah began to be with him in the camp of Dan, between Saraa and Esthaol.
And he divided the three hundred men into three bands, and he put a trumpet in every man's hand, with empty pitchers, and lamps within the pitchers.
And he consulted Jehovah, and he answered him not, neither by dreams, nor by priests, nor by prophets.
And Saul gathered the people together, and numbered them in Telaim, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And it came to pass the next day that Saul set the people in three companies; and they came into the midst of the camp in the morning watch, and smote Ammon until the heat of the day: and it came to pass that they who remained were scattered, and not two of them were left together.
Abimelech rose up, and all the people who were with him, by night, and they laid wait against Shechem in four companies.
And Israel and the Philistines had put their forces in position, army against army.
And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and in all judgment;
and he saith unto them, `What have I done now like you? are not the gleaning of Ephraim better than the harvest of Abi-Ezer?
For if a man find his enemy, will he let him go well away? wherefore Jehovah reward thee good for that thou hast done to me this day.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he went down to Ascalon, and slew there thirty men, whose garments he took away and gave to them that had declared the riddle. And being exceeding angry he went up to his father's house:
And Gideon said to them, "Let me make a request of you, that each of you give to me an ornamental ring from his plunder." (They had ornamental rings of gold, because they were Ishmaelites.)
And they all came to the house of God in Silo, and abiding before him till the evening, lifted up their voice, and began to lament and weep, speaking:
And all [they of] the land have come into a forest, and there is honey on the face of the field;
For such a high priest became us, who is holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners, and made higher than the heavens;
You have not come to the mountain which may be touched, and is burning with fire, and to a black cloud, and a dark smoke, and a violent wind,
Of whom it was said, that in Isaac shall thy seed be called:
Tarry with me. Don't be afraid, for he who seeks my life seeks your life. For you will be safe with me."
whereof the Holy Spirit also is a witness to us; for after that he had said before,
When Saul saw the army of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart trembled greatly.
Bent at her feet he went down, he was stretched out; bent at her feet he went down; where he was bent down, there he went down in death.
Arise therefore in the night with the people that is with thee and he hid in the field:
But Ahimelech answered the king and said, "And who among all your servants is as faithful as David? He is the son-in-law of the king who moves quickly to safeguard you and is honored in your house.
where as a forerunner Jesus entered for us, having become a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek.
And when Saul saw how wisely he did, he was in fear of him.
lo, my daughter, virgin, and his concubine, let me bring them out, I pray you, and humble ye them, and do to them that which is good in your eyes, and to this man do not this foolish thing.'
Then said Saul to his servants, Seek me a woman that hast a spirit of Python, that I may go to her and inquire of her. And his servants said to him, Behold, there is a woman who hast a spirit of Python at En-dor.
and the three eldest sons of Jesse go, they have gone after Saul to battle; and the name of his three sons who have gone into battle Eliab the first-born, and his second Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
and Saul saith to the bearer of his weapons, `Draw thy sword, and pierce me with it, lest they come -- these uncircumcised -- and have pierced me, and rolled themselves on me;' and the bearer of his weapons hath not been willing, for he is greatly afraid, and Saul taketh the sword, and falleth upon it.
And the Ziphites came to Saul at Gibeah, and said, Is not David waiting secretly near us in the hill of Hachilah, before the waste land?
all the valiant men arose, went all night, and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth Shan; and they came to Jabesh, and burnt them there.
And Saul said to him, Young man, whose son are you? And David in answer said, I am the son of your servant Jesse of Beth-lehem.
It repenteth me that I have set up Saul to be king; for he is turned back from following me, and hath not performed my commandments. And it grieved Samuel: and he cried unto Jehovah all night.
And Saul's uncle said, Tell me, I pray thee, what Samuel said unto you.
For Jehovah will not give his people up, because of the glory of his name; for it was the Lord's pleasure to make of you a people for himself.
The lords of the Philistines passed on by hundreds and by thousands; and David and his men passed on in the rear with Achish.
After a while, at the time of the wheat harvest, Samson visited his wife with a young goat. He said, "I want to go to my wife's private room." But her father would not know him to enter.
Do they not find? -- they apportion spoil, A female -- two females -- for every head, Spoil of finger-work for Sisera, Spoil of embroidered finger-work, Finger-work -- a pair of embroidered things, For the necks of the spoil!
And Micah gave the position to the Levite, and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
Let them give thought to it, who go on white asses, and those who are walking on the road.
But David's men said to him, "Look, we are afraid here in Judah. How much more if we go to Keilah to the battle lines of the Philistines?"
Now therefore deliver us the men, base fellows, that are in Gibeah, that we may put them to death, and put away the evil from Israel. But the children of Benjamin would not hearken to the voice of their brethren the children of Israel.
Then David said to Achish, "But what have I done? And what have you found in your servant from the day that I entered your service until this day, that I should not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?"
And the fig saith to them, Have I ceased from my sweetness, and my good increase, that I have gone to stagger over the trees?
And when Israel had sown, Madian and Amalec, and the rest of the eastern nations came up;
For when God made a promise to Abraham, since he could swear by no one greater, he swore by himself,
and to Gideon there have been seventy sons, coming out of his loin, for he had many wives;
And when I blow the trumpet, I and all that are with me, ye also shall blow the trumpets around the whole camp, and shall say, For even Jehovah, and for Gideon!
His brothers and his whole family came down and picked him up; and they brought him up and buried him between Zorah and Eshtaol in the tomb of Manoah his father; he judged Israel twenty years.
and a messenger of Jehovah appeareth unto the woman, and saith unto her, `Lo, I pray thee, thou barren, and hast not borne; when thou hast conceived, then thou hast borne a son.
Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus:
And the congregation sent there twelve thousand men from the troops, and they commanded them, saying, "Go, strike the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead with the edge of the sword, and the women and children.
And it came to pass, when all that knew him before saw that, behold, he prophesied among the prophets, then the people said one to another, What is this that hast happened to the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?
All these died according to faith, not having received the promises, but beholding them afar off, and saluting them, and confessing that they are pilgrims and sojourners on the earth.
And the children of Judah did not make the Jebusites who were living in Jerusalem go out; the Jebusites are still living with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem.
and to remain in the flesh is more necessary on your money,
God providing some better thing for us, that they should not be perfected without us.
And after him was Shamgar the son of Anath, which slew of the Philistines six hundred men with an ox goad: and he also delivered Israel.
And Samuel said to Saul, I will not turn again with thee; for thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, and even Jehovah, hast rejected thee from being king over Israel.
And Israel drew near to the descendants of Benjamin on the second day.
Now on the fourth day they gat up early in the morning and he made ready to go away; but the girl's father said to his son-in-law, Take a little food to keep up your strength, and then go on your way.
And the people -- heads of Gilead -- say one to another, `Who the man that doth begin to fight against the Bene-Ammon? he is for head to all inhabitants of Gilead.'
And as for your female donkeys that were lost three days ago, do not be concerned about them, because they have been found. For whom is all the desire of Israel? Is it not for you and for all the house of your father?"
and call unto the sons of Dan, and they turn round their faces, and say to Micah, `What -- to thee that thou hast been called together?'
thus the Christ also, having been once offered to bear the sins of many, shall appear to those that look for him the second time without sin for salvation.
I winepress toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.
And Jonathan caused David to swear again, because he loved him; for he loved him as he loved his own soul.
Then the angel of Yahweh reached out the tip of the staff that was in his hand, and he touched the food and the unleavened cakes; And fire went up from the rock and consumed the food and the unleavened cakes. And the angel of Yahweh went from his sight.
And they run and bring him thence, and he stationed himself in the midst of the people, and he is higher than any of the people from his shoulder and upward.
There was a certain man from Zorah, from the tribe of the Danites, and his name was Manoah; his wife was infertile and did not bear children.
And Samson said to them, This time I am guiltless toward the Philistines, though I do them harm.
about him we have many words to say, and hard to interpret, seeing you have become dull of hearing.
In that he saith, A new covenant, he hath made the first old. Now that which wasteth and waxeth old is ready to be done away.
So they sat down, ate, and drank, both of them together. Then the young lady's father said to the man, "Please is content to stay all night, and let your heart be merry."
And he said to them, "Watch me and do the same. When I come to the edge of the camp, do just as I do.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kirjath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have brought again the ark of Jehovah; come down, fetch it up to you.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Gideon, and he blew the trumpet, and the Abi-ezrites were gathered after him.
And she saith, `Honour hath journeyed from Israel, for the ark of God hath been taken.'
and the sons of Israel do the evil thing in the eyes of Jehovah, and forget Jehovah their God, and serve the Baalim and the shrines.
And they waited so long they became embarrassed because he did not open the doors of the upper place. So they took the key and opened the doors, and there their lord was lying on the ground dead.
Now the number of those who took up the water with their tongues was three hundred; all the rest of the people went down on their knees to the water.
Then Yahweh raised up leaders, and they delivered them from the hand of their plunderers.
How shall we provide wives for those who remain, since we have sworn by Yahweh that we will not give them of our daughters to wives?"
And the children of Israel repented them for Benjamin their brother, and said, There is one tribe cut off from Israel this day.
Salute ye every one in Christ Jesus.
Behold, ye are all children of Israel; give here your counsel and counsel.
The Philistines were standing on the hill on one side and the army of Israel was standing on the hill on the other side with the valley between them.
As the proverb of the elders says, 'Out of the wicked comes wickedness;' but my hand will not be on you.
When therefore these signs shall happen to thee, do whatsoever thy hand shall find, for Jehovah is with thee.
And Samson saith unto her, `If they bind me with seven green withs which have not been dried up, then I have been weak, and have been as one of the human race.'
In those days there was no king in Israel, and in those days the Danites were looking for a heritage for themselves, to be their living-place; for up to that time no distribution of land had been made to them among the tribes of Israel.
And the men of Israel turned in the battle, and Benjamin began to inflict casualties on about thirty men of Israel because they thought, "They will be completely defeated before us as in the first battle."
Then about a month after this, Nahash the Ammonite came up and put his forces in position for attacking Jabesh-gilead: and all the men of Jabesh said to Nahash, Make your peace with us and we will be your servants.
And Saul spoke to Jonathan his son and to all his servants, that they should kill David. But Jonathan the son of Saul loved David exceedingly.
And they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods, of the gods of the peoples that were round about them, and bowed themselves unto them, and provoked Jehovah to anger.
And David said to Saul, Why do you give any attention to those who say that it is my desire to do you wrong?
When you have stayed three days, go down quickly, and come to the place where you hid yourself when this started, and remain by the stone Ezel.
And all the sons of Israel go up, even all the people, and come in to Beth-El, and weep, and sit there before Jehovah, and fast on that day till the evening, and cause to ascend burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
And the cart came into the field of Josue a Bethsamite, and stood there. And there was a great stone, and they cut in pieces the wood of the cart, and laid the kine upon it a holocaust to Jehovah.
David said to Saul, "Do not let anyone's heart fail concerning him! Your servant will go and fight with this Philistine."
There remaineth therefore a day of rest for the people of God.
So the priest gave him hallowed bread; for there was no bread there but the showbread, that was taken from before Jehovah, to put hot bread in the day when it was taken away.
And Jonathan took off the robe he had on and gave it to David, with all his military dress, even to his sword and his bow and the band round his body.
Let us therefore, as many as are perfected; be thus minded; and if in anything you be otherwise minded, this also God will reveal to you.
But ye know the proof of him, that, as a son with the father, he hath served with me in the gospel.
Now see how great this man was, to whom our father Abraham gave a tenth part of what he had gathered in the fight.
For the Christ is not entered into holy places made with hand, The figures of the true, but into heaven itself, now to appear before the face of God for us:
Lo, this day have thine eyes seen how that Jehovah hath given thee to-day into my hand in the cave; and said to slay thee, and [mine eye] hath pity on thee, and I say, I do not put forth my hand against my lord, for the anointed of even Jehovah, he .
Now therefore, please let my lord the king hear the words of his servant. If it is so that Yahweh hast stirred you up against me, let him accept an thereof. But if it is the children of men, they are cursed before Yahweh; for they have driven me out to-day that I shouldn't cling to Yahweh's inheritance, saying, 'Go, serve other gods!'
Yea, truly, and I am ready to give up all things for the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, which is more than all: for whom I have undergone the loss of all things, and to me they are less than nothing, so that I may have Christ as my reward,
And when the men of Israel turned back in the battle, Benjamin began to smite, slaying of the men of Israel about thirty men; for they said, Surely they are quite routed before us as in the first battle.
But now this shall be the thing which we will do to Gibeah; we will go up by lot against it;
and he taketh a couple of oxen, and cutteth them in pieces, and sendeth through all the border of Israel, by the hand of the messengers, saying, `He who is not coming out after Saul and after Samuel -- thus it is done to his oxen;' and the fear of Jehovah falleth on the people, and they come out as one man.
And Achish had belief in what David said, saying, He hast made himself hated by all his people Israel, and so he will be my servant for ever.
And Samson, crying out to Jehovah, said, O Lord Jehovah, do have me now in mind, and do make me strong only this once, O God, so that I may take one last payment from the Philistines for my two eyes.
The wise ones, her princesses, answer her, Yea, she returneth her words to herself:
They buried him within the border of his inheritance in Timnah-heres, in the hill-country of Ephraim north of Mount Gaash.
For if the word, spoken by angels, became steadfast, and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense of reward.
to those who were in Hebron, and to all the places where David himself and his men used to stay.
and the sons of Benjamin are gathered out of the cities to Gibeah, to go out to battle with the sons of Israel.
And Samuel said to all the people: Surely you see him whom Jehovah hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people. And all the people cried and said: Long live the king.
By faith Joseph, when his end was near, said that the children of Israel would go out of Egypt; and gave orders about his bones.
Caleb said, "I will give Achsah my daughter as wife to the man who strikes Kiriath Sepher, and takes it."
dwell with me; fear not; for he who seeketh my life seeketh thy life; for a charge thou with me.'
A man making void the law of Moses, dieth without any lovingkindness under two or three witnesses:
Zebah and Zalmunna fled; and he pursued them. He took the two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna, and confused all the army.
Then came the messengers to Gibeah of Saul, and told the tidings in the ears of the people: and all the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
And the time that David dwelt in the country of the Philistines, was four months.
They took their daughters to be their wives, and gave their own daughters to their sons and served their gods.
So his mother's family said all this about him in the ears of all the townsmen of Shechem; and their hearts were turned to Abimelech, for they said, He is our brother.
And Hannah, answering him, said, No, my lord, I am a woman whose spirit is broken with sorrow: I have not taken wine or strong drink, but I have been opening my heart before Jehovah.
And being certain of this, I am conscious that I will go on, yes, and go on with you all, for your growth and joy in the faith;
For he hast said somewhere of the seventh thus, And God rested on the seventh day from all his works:
And the lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and said unto her, Entice him, and see wherein his great strength lieth, and how we may prevail against him, that we may bind him to afflict him; and we will give thee each one of us eleven hundred pieces of silver.
Judah went against the Canaanite who lived in Hebron. (The name of Hebron beforetime that was Kiriath Arba.) They struck Sheshai, Ahiman, and Talmai.
Then said all the trees unto the bramble, Come thou, and reign over us.
And the people say unto Saul, `Doth Jonathan die who wrought this great salvation in Israel? -- a profanation! Jehovah liveth, if there falleth from the hair of his head to the earth, for with God he hath wrought this day;' and the people Rescue Jonathan, and he hath not died.
fulfil my joy, that ye may think the same thing, having the same love, joined in soul, thinking one thing;
And David laid up these words in his heart, and was sore afraid of Achish the king of Gath.
And David's two wives were taken captive, Ahinoam the Jizreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal of Nabal the Carmelite.
And David answered the priest, and said unto him, Of a truth women have been kept from us about these three days, since I came out, and the vessels of the young men are holy, and the bread is in a manner common, yea, though it were sanctified this day in the vessel.
`And now, Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath dispossessed the Amorites from the presence of His people Israel, and thou wouldst possess it!
And the congregation sent thither twelve thousand men of the valiantest, and charged them, saying, Go and smite the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead with the edge of the sword, with the women and the children.
Go, I pray you, make yet more sure, and know and see his place where his track is, who hast seen him there; for it is told me that he parts very subtilly.
When the Philistine arose, and walked and came near to meet David, David hurried, and ran toward the army to meet the Philistine.
And Jephthah passeth over unto the Bene-Ammon to fight against them, and Jehovah giveth them into his hand,
And they send the ark of God to Ekron, and it cometh to pass, at the coming in of the ark of God to Ekron, that the Ekronites cry out, saying, `They have brought round unto us the ark of the God of Israel, to put us to death -- and our people.'
And he spake also unto the men of Penuel, saying, When I come again in peace, I will break down this tower.
Now these are the gold tumors which the Philistines returned as a guilt oblation to Yahweh: one for Ashdod, one for Gaza, one for Ashkelon, one for Gath, one for Ekron.
As also a piece of a cake of figs, and two clusters of raisins. And when he had eaten them his spirit returned, and he was refreshed; for he had not eaten bread, nor drunk water three days, and three nights.
But what things were gain to me, those I counted loss for Christ.
For rebellion is as the sin of sorcery, and stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. Because thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, he hath also rejected thee from being king.
Yea doubtless, and I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord: for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dung, that I may win Christ,
holding fast to the word of life, for a source of pride to me in the day of Christ, that I did not run in vain or labor in vain.
And when it was told Saul, he sent other messengers, and they prophesied likewise. And Saul sent messengers again the third time, and they prophesied also.
The wisest of her princesses answer her; she also answers the question herself:
This thing is not good that thou hast done. As Jehovah liveth, ye are worthy to die, because ye have not kept your master, the Lord's anointed. And now see where the king's spear is, and the cruse of water that was at his bolster.
And every year Eli gave Elkanah and his wife a blessing, saying, May Jehovah give you offspring by this woman in exchange for the child you have given to Jehovah. And they went back to their house.
And it was told Saul by some, speaking: Behold David is in Najoth in Ramatha.
And all the wicked men, and fellow, of those that had gone with David, answered and said, Because they went not with us, we will not give them of the spoil that we have recovered, save to every man his wife and his children, that they may lead away and depart.
And let us think about how to stir one another up to love and good works,
And as this is not without the taking of an oath
And all Israel have heard, saying, `Saul hath smitten the garrison of the Philistines,' and also, `Israel hath been abhorred by the Philistines;' and the people are called after Saul to Gilgal.
And Abimelech is prince over Israel three years,
David said to Saul, "Why do you listen to men's words, saying, 'Behold, David seeks to harm you?'
and the Philistines call for priests and for diviners, saying, `What do we do to the ark of Jehovah? let us know wherewith we send it to itself place?'
Then David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice and wept, until they had no more power to weep.
For if the word which was spoken through angels was firm, and every transgression and disobedience received just retribution,
Then three thousand men from Judah went down to the hoof cloven of the rock of Etam, and they said to Samson, "Do you not know that the Philistines are ruleth over us? What is this that you have done to us?" And he said to them, "Just as they did to me, so I have done to them."
And his concubine that was in Shechem, she also bare him a son, whose name he called Abimelech.
For those who say such things make clear that they are seeking a homeland.
and the woman hasteth, and runneth therefore, and declareth to her husband, and saith unto him, `Lo, he hath appeared unto me -- the man who came on day unto me.'
But the people took of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the choicest of the devoted things, to sacrifice to Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.
And when they of Ashdod, arose early the next day, behold, Dagon had fallen on his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah. And they took Dagon, and set him in his place again.
And David goeth thence to Mizpeh of Moab, and saith unto the king of Moab, `Let, I pray thee, my father and my mother go out with you, till that I know what God doth for me;'
The stars fought from heaven; from their courses they fought against Sisera.
And the chiefs of all the people, of all the tribes of Israel, station themselves in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen drawing sword.
And Saul was very wroth, and that saying was evil in his sight; and he said, They have ascribed to David ten thousands, but to me they have ascribed the thousands; and is there more for him but the kingdom?
But my God will abundantly supply all your need according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
By faith Abel offered to God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, by which he obtained testimony of being righteous, God bearing testimony to his gifts, and by it, having died, he yet speaks.
You shall not only while yet I live show me the loving kindness of Yahweh, that I not die;
Zebulun a people who exposed itself soul to death, Naphtali also -- on high places of the field.
So the man Elkanah went up with all his household to make the annual sacrifice to Yahweh and to pay his vow.
In the days of Shamgar, the son of Anath, in the days of Jael, the highways were not used, and travellers went by side roads.
He sent to those who were in Beth-el, and in Ramah of the South, and in Jattir;
Then Abishai said to David, God hast given up your hater into your hands today; now let me give him one blow through to the earth with his spear, and there will be no need to give him a second.
Judging that God was able to give life even to the dead; and because of this he did get him back as if from death.
So also Christ didn't glorify himself to be made a high priest, but it was he who said to him, "You are my Son. To-day I have become your father."
If then he indeed were upon earth, he would not even be a priest, there being those who offer the gifts according to the law,
But Joash said to all those who were attacking him, Will you take up the cause of Baal? will you be his saviour? Let anyone who will take up his cause be put to death while it is still morning; if he is a god, let him take up his cause himself because of the casting down of his altar.
And all the men of Israel who had taken cover in the hill-country of Ephraim, hearing that the Philistines had been put to flight, went after them, attacking them.
And he had a helmet of bronze upon his head, and he was clothed with a corselet of scales; and the weight of the corselet was five thousand shekels of bronze.
But David fled and escaped, and came to Samuel in Ramatha, and told him all that Saul had done to him: and he and Samuel went and dwelt in Najoth.
And David asketh at Jehovah, saying, `Do I go? -- and have I smitten among these Philistines?' And even Jehovah, saith unto David, `Go, and thou hast smitten among the Philistines, and saved Keilah.'
And Jehovah sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, that reigned in Hazor; the captain of whose host was Sisera, that dwelt in Harosheth of the Gentiles.
And the men of Israel went out to war against Benjamin (and the men of Israel put their forces in fighting order against them at Gibeah).
saying, "This is the blood of the covenant which God hast commanded you."
And when David was coming back after the destruction of the Philistine, Abner took him to Saul, with the head of the Philistine in his hand.
And Saul did not look on David with a good eye from that day and forward.
Then Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, having three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
And all the people rise as one man, saying, `None of us doth go to his tent, and none of us doth turn aside to his house;
When ye go in, ye shall come to a people secure, and the land is spacious in every direction; for God hast given it into your hands; [it is] a place where there is no want of anything that is on the earth.
And David girded his sword upon his armor, and he assayed to go; for he had not proved it. And David said unto Saul, I cannot go with these: for I have not proved them. And David put them off him.
Then Saul sent messengers to David's house to guard him and to kill him in the morning, but Michal his wife told David, saying, "If you do not save your life tonight, then tomorrow you will be killed!"
for every house is builded by some one, and He who the all things did build God,
And even Jehovah, addeth to appear in Shiloh, for Jehovah hath been revealed unto Samuel, in Shiloh, by the word of Jehovah.
He was very thirsty, and called on Yahweh, and said, "You have given this great deliverance by the hand of your servant; and now shall I die of thirst, and fall into the hands of the uncircumcised?"
Ye have not yet resisted unto blood, wrestling against sin.
Once again Jephthah sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon,
And it hath been if Israel hath sowed, that Midian hath come up, and Amalek, and the sons of the east, yea, they have come up against him,
As for your donkeys who were lost three days ago, don't set your mind on them; for they have been found. For whom is all that is desirable in Israel? Is it not for you, and for all your father's house?"
And the servants of Saul declare to him, saying, `According to these words hath David spoken.'
Now ye Philippians know this, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church I laid with me as concerning giving and receiving, but ye only.
And Saul encampeth in the height of Hachilah, which on before the wilderness, by the way, and David is abiding in the wilderness, and he seeth that Saul hath come after him in to the wilderness;
And Gideon came to the the Jordan, passed over, he and the three hundred men that were with him, faint, yet pursuing.
The children of Israel also returned by their tribes, and families, to their dwellings. In those days there was no king in Israel; but every one did that which was right to himself.
And he passeth over through the hill-country of Ephraim, and passeth over through the land of Shalisha, and they have not found; and they pass over through the land of Shaalim, and they are not, and he passeth over through the land of Benjamin, and they have not found.
And the sons of Eli were sons of Belial; they knew not Jehovah.
For he that is entered into his rest, he also hath ceased from his own works, as God did from his.
The towns which the Philistines had taken from Israel were returned to Israel from Ekron to Gath, and Israel delivered their territories from the hand of the Philistines. Then there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
having no fear of those who are against you; which is a clear sign of their destruction, but of your salvation, and that from God;
And they gave up Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who had taken them out of the land of Egypt, and went after other gods, the gods of the peoples round about them, worshipping them and moving Jehovah to wrath.
and the men very good to us, and have not put us to shame, and we have not looked after anything all the days we have gone up and down with them, in our being in the field;
Have I need of mad men, that ye have brought this fellow to play the madman in my presence? shall this man come into my house?
And hospitality do not forget; for by this some, being it it, have entertained angels.
and he saith to his mother, `The eleven hundred silverlings which have been taken of thine, and [of which] thou hast sworn, and also spoken in my ears; lo, the silver with me, I have taken it;' and his mother saith, `Blessed my son of Jehovah.'
And as soon as the lad was gone, David arose out of a place toward the south, and fell on his face to the ground, and bowed himself thrice: and they kissed one another, and wept one with another, until David behaved themselves proudly.
However, I consider the things that were gain to me as a loss for Christ.
And her lord rose up in the morning, and opened the door of the house, and went out to go his way, and behold, there lay the woman his concubine at the entrance of the house, and her hands were upon the threshold.
And David's men said to him, Behold the day of which Jehovah said to thee, Behold, I will give thine enemy into thy hand, that thou mayest do to him as it shall seem good to thee. And David arose, and cut off the skirt of Saul's robe secretly.
Therefore I have sworn to the house of Eli, that the iniquity of Eli's house shall not be removed with sacrifice or offering forever."
And he had thirty sons who rode on thirty ass colts; and they had thirty cities, which are called the villages of Jair to this day, which are in the land of Gilead.
and Moab is humbled in that day under the hand of Israel; and the land resteth eighty years.
When he had finished speaking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
And they took that which Micah had made, and the priest that he had had, and came upon Laish, upon a people quiet and secure; and they smote them with the edge of the sword, and burned the city with fire.
And when all who knew him formerly saw that he prophesied with prophets, the people said to one another, "What is this that hast happened to the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?"
Now, my father, see, yes, see, the skirts of your robe in my hand! For when I cut the skirts of your robe I did not kill you. Know and realize that there is no evil or rebellion in my hand. I did not sin against you, but you are hunting down my life to take it.
but the Asherites lived among the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land; for they did not drive them out.
for my father fought for you, and endangered his life, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian:
He caught a young man of the men of Succoth, and learned of him: and he described for him the princes of Succoth, and itself elders, seventy-seven men.
for the reckoning of God is living, and working, and sharp above every two-edged sword, and swift unto the dividing asunder both of soul and spirit, of joints also and marrow, and a discerner of thoughts and intents of the heart;
yea, they forsake Jehovah, and do service to Baal and to Ashtaroth.
Now while Saul was talking to the priest, the noise in the tents of the Philistines became louder and louder; and Saul said to the priest, Take back your hand.
for he of whom these things are said in another tribe hath had part, of whom no one gave heed at the altar,
for Jehovah doth not leave His people, on account of His great name; for Jehovah hath been pleased to make you to Him for a people.
So God that day humbled Jabin the king of Chanaan before the children of Israel:
So that day God overcame Jabin, king of Canaan, before the children of Israel.
And now, behold, I know well that thou shalt surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thy hand.
And for this cause he is the mediator of the covenant, that by means of death, for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first testament, they that are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance.
Then the priest's heart was glad, and he took the ephod and the family gods and the pictured image and went with the people.
Then all the Midianites and the Amalekite and the people of the east, banding themselves together, went over and put up their tents in the valley of Jezreel.
And I went after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth; and when he arose against me, I seized him by his beard, and smote him, and slew him.
looking unto Jesus a God and finisher of our faith; who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God.
After whom is the king of Israel come out? after whom dost thou pursue? after a dead dog, after a flea.
Then Manoah prayed to Yahweh and said, "Excuse me, my Lord, please let the man of God whom you sent again come to us and teach us what we should do concerning the boy who will be born."
So that day he gave him the name of Jerubbaal, saying, Let Baal take up his cause against him because his altar hast been broken down.
And Manoah said to his wife, We shall surely die, because we have seen God.
My heart loveth the princes of Israel: O you that of your own good will offered yourselves to danger, bless Jehovah.
And there was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish, the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Bechorath, the son of Aphiah, the son of a Benjaminite, a mighty man of wealth.
And the old man raised his eyes and saw the traveler in the open square of the city, and he said, "Where are you going, and from where do you come?"
and all the people go to Gilgal, and cause Saul to reign there before Jehovah in Gilgal, and sacrifice there sacrifices of peace-offerings before Jehovah, and there Saul rejoiceth -- and all the men of Israel -- very greatly.
For unto which of the angels said he at any time, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee? And again, I will be to him a Father, and he shall be to me a Son?
And Saul and the people spared Agag and the best of the flocks of sheep and of the herds, and the garments and the rams, and all that was beautiful, and would not destroy them: but everything that was vile and good for nothing, that they destroyed.
And Jehovah said unto Gideon, By the three hundred men that lapped will I save you, and deliver the Midianites into thy hand: and let all the other people go every man unto his place.
David came to Saul, and stood before him. He loved him greatly; and he became his armor bearer.
For, as Jehovah liveth, who saveth Israel, though it be in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die. But there was not a man among all the people that answered him.
and the sons of Dan go on their way, and Micah seeth that they are stronger than he, and turneth, and goeth back unto his house.
as it is righteous for me to think this as to you all, because ye have *me* in your hearts, and that both in my bonds and in the defence and confirmation of the glad tidings ye are all participators in my grace.
And it came to pass soon afterwards, that he loved a woman in the valley of Sorek, whose name was Delilah.
And the tent too and all the vessels of service he sprinkled in like manner with blood;
For he hast not subjected to angels the habitable world which is to come, of which we speak;
And Samuel said to the people, Come, and let us go to Gilgal, and renew the kingdom there.
and Saul and the men of Israel have been gathered, and encamp by the valley of Elah, and set the battle in array to meet the Philistines.
And they turned thither, and came to the house of young man the Levite, the house of Micah, and learned after his welfare.
A curse, a curse on Meroz! said the angel of Jehovah. A bitter curse on her townspeople! Because they came not to the help of Jehovah, to the help of Jehovah among the strong ones.
And they said, He is; in fact he is before you: go quickly now, for he hast come into the village today, for the people are making an offering in the high place today:
After that you will come to Gibeah, the hill of God, where an armed force of the Philistines is stationed: and when you come to the village, you will see a band of prophets coming down from the high place with instruments of music before them; and they will be acting like prophets:
and then fell away, it is impossible to renew them again to repentance; seeing they crucify the Son of God for themselves again, and put him to open shame.
And Saul returned from pursuing after David, and went against the Philistines; therefore they called that place Sela-hammahlekoth.
And it came to pass at the time when Merab Saul's daughter should have been given to David, that she was given to Adriel the Meholathite as wife.
There was at that time a man of the hill-country of Ephraim whose name was Michas,
They called the name of the city Dan, after the name of Dan their father, who was born to Israel: however the name of the city used to be Laish.
Depart not hence, I pray thee, until I come unto thee, and bring forth my present, and set it before thee. And he said, I will tarry until thou come again.
And we must use all care, and provide with great earnestness, that one tribe be not destroyed out of Israel.
Therefore they inquired of Jehovah further, if the man should yet come thither. And Jehovah answered, Behold, he hath hid himself among the stuff.
And she sat under a palm-tree, which was called by her name, between Rama and Beth-el in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel came up to her for all judgment.
But Christ being come high priest of the good things to come, by the better and more perfect tent not made with hand, (that is, not of this creation,)
In those days there is no king in Israel, and in those days the tribe of the Danite is seeking for itself an inheritance to inhabit, for hath not fallen to it unto that day in the midst of the tribes of Israel by inheritance.
By faith Noah, having been divinely warned concerning the things not yet seen, having feared, did prepare an ark to the salvation of his house, through which he did condemn the world, and of the righteousness according to faith he became heir.
And the children of Dan set up the graven image; and Jehonathan, the son of Gershom, the son of Moses; he and his sons were priests to the tribe of Dan until the day of the captivity of the land.
And word was given to Abimelech that all the men of the tower of Shechem were there together.
And Barak pursued after the chariots, and after the army, to Harosheth-Goim; and all the army of Sisera fell by the edge of the sword; not one was left.
And he said to them: Why do ye these kinds of things, which I hear, very wicked things, from all the people?
And Gedeon sent messengers into all the hill-country of Ephraim, speaking: Come down to meet Midian, and take the waters before them to Bethbera and the the Jordan. And all Ephraim shouted, and took the waters before them and the the Jordan as far as Bethbera.
Who by faith conquered kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouth of lions,
For God is not unrighteous, so as to forget your work and the labor of love which you showed toward his name, in that you served the saints, and still do serve them.
Then they said, "What should the trespass-offering be which we shall return to him?" They said, "Five golden tumors, and five golden mice, for the number of the lords of the Philistines; for one plague was on you all, and on your lords.
Now without any reason the inferior is blessed by the more prominent.
When David came to Ziklag, he sent some of the plunder to the elders of Judah, even to his friends, saying, "Behold, a present for you from the plunder of Yahweh's enemies."
And Saul was afraid of David, because Jehovah was with him, and was departed from Saul.
For our God is a devouring fire.
And the angel of Jehovah came up from Gilgal to Bochim, and said, I made you to go up out of Egypt, and have brought you to the land which I swore unto your fathers; and I said, I will never break my covenant with you; and as for you,
And they retreated from before the men of Israel to the way of the wilderness, but the battle caught up to them, and those who came from the cities destroyed them in the midst of them.
They would not be satisfied with his words; which the man seeing, brought out his concubine to them, and abandoned her to their wickedness: and when they had abused her all the night, they let her go in the morning.
And Saul said unto the Kenite, Go, depart, get you down from among the Amalekites, lest I destroy you with them: for ye showed kindness to all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt. So the Kenites departed from among the Amalekites.
and here, indeed, men who die do receive tithes, and there , who is testified to that he was living,
The number of those lapping up the water with their hand to their mouth was three hundred men; all the rest of the troops kneeled to drink the water.
For many walk, of whom I told you often, and now tell you even weeping, as the enemies of the cross of Christ,
Then Israel sent messengers unto the king of Edom, saying, Let me, I pray thee, pass through thy land: but the king of Edom would not hearken thereto. And in like manner they sent unto the king of Moab: but he would not consent; Against thee do and Israel abode in Kadesh.
because even in Thessalonica on more than one occasion you sent for my need.
So they put another question to Jehovah, Is the man present here? And the answer of Jehovah was, He is keeping himself from view among the goods.
and because of this infirmity he aught, as for the people, so also for himself to offer for sins;
David said to Saul, "Your servant was keeping his father's sheep; and when a lion or a bear came, and took a lamb out of the flock,
So Saul sent officers to take David: and when they saw a company of prophets prophesying, and Samuel presiding over them, the spirit of Jehovah came also upon them, and they likewise began to prophesy.
For he, of whom these things are spoken, is of another tribe, of which no one attended on the altar.
And Hebrews have passed over the the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead? and Saul yet in Gilgal, and all the people have trembled after him.
And Saul feared David, because Jehovah was with him, and was departed from himself.
So Jonathan went up on his hands and his feet, with his armor bearer after him. They fell before Jonathan and then his armor bearer would kill them after him.
And see, and, behold, if the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in dances, then come ye out of the vineyards, and catch you every man his wife of the daughters of Shiloh, and go to the land of Benjamin.
For who, when they heard, rebelled? No, didn't all those who came out of Egypt with Moses?
And the king said to Doeg: Turn thou, and fall upon the priests. And Doeg the Edomite turned, and fell upon the priests and slew in that day eighty-five men that wore the linen ephod.
And Manoah said to the angel of Jehovah, Now let us keep you while we make ready a young goat for you.
And Ahimelech answereth the king and saith, `And who among all thy servants as David -- faithful, and son-in-law of the king, and hath turned aside unto thy council, and is honored in thy house?
And Saul disguised himself, and put on other garments, and he went, and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night; and he said, I pray thee, divine to me by the spirit of Python, and bring me up whom I shall name to thee.
And the Philistines put themselves in array against Israel; and the battle spread, and Israel was routed before the Philistines; and they slew in battle array in the field about four thousand men.
again he determines a certain day, saying, in David, 'To-day,' after so long a time; (according as it hast been said before), To-day, if ye will hear his voice, harden not your hearts.
Then the elders of the assembly said, "How shall we provide wives for those who remain, since the women are destroyed out of Benjamin?"
And, behold, as thy life was much set by this day in mine eyes, so let my life be much set by in the eyes of Jehovah, and let him deliver me out of all affliction.
And the Philistine came nearer to David; and the man who had his body-cover went before him.
Jesus Christ, yesterday, and to day; and the same for ever.
But exhort one another every day, Whilst it is called to day, that none of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin.
And the name of Saul's wife, was Achinoam the daughter of Achimaas; and the name of the captain of his army was Abner, the son of Ner, the german of Saul. Elisabeth
And the people saw him, and they praised their god, for they said, "Our god hast given into our hand those who hate us, devastate our land, and have killed many of us."
Partly, Whilst ye were made a gazingstock both by reproaches and afflictions; and partly, Whilst ye became companions of them that were so used.
The descendants of Benjamin saw that they were defeated, and the men of Israel gave ground to Benjamin because they trusted the ambush that they had set against Gibeah.
Of whom it had been said, From Isaac will your seed take their name:
And there is a young man of Beth-Lehem-Judah, of the family of Judah, and he a Levite, and he a sojourner there.
And it cometh to pass in the morning, that Jonathan goeth out into the field for the appointment with David, and a little youth with him.
Now there was a appointed sign between the men of Israel and the an in wait, that they should make a great flame with smoke rise up out of the city.
The Sidonians also and Amalec and Chanaan oppress you, and you cried to me, and I delivered you out of their hand?
And the men of Bethsames said: Who shall be able to stand before Jehovah this holy God? and to whom shall he go up from us?
as also it is said in the old proverb: From the wicked shall wickedness come forth; therefore my hand shall not be upon thee. After whom dost thou come out, O king of Israel?
and, now, I have heard that thou hast shearers; now, the shepherds whom thou hast have been with us, we have not put them to shame, nor hath anything been looked after by them, all the days of their being in Carmel.
So while he was sleeping she bought the seven twists of his hair worked into her cloth and fixed with the pin, and said to him, The Philistines are on you, Samson. Then roused from his sleep, he bought up quickly, casting up cloth and machine together.
David struck the land, and saved no man or woman alive, and took away the sheep, the cattle, the donkeys, the camels, and the clothing. Then he returned, and came to Achish.
And Midian was subdued before Israel, and they did not again lift up their head, and the land rested for forty years in the days of Gideon.
Not that I have already obtained [the prize], or am already perfected; but I pursue, if also I may get possession [of it], seeing that also I have been taken possession of by Christ .
And it came to pass that every one that saw it said, There hath been no such deed done nor seen from the day that the children of Israel came out of Egypt to this day. Think it over, advise thee, and speak.
So then, we can say securely, "The Lord is my helper, I will not be afraid. What will man do to me?"
For we, who have believed, shall enter into rest; as he said: As I have sworn in my indignation; If they shall enter into my weary; and this indeed when the works from the foundation of the world were finished.
David sent ten young men, and David said to the young men, "Go up to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and salute him in my name.
And the three hundred blew the trumpets, and Jehovah set every man's sword against his fellow, even throughout the camp. And the host fled to Beth-shittah towards Zererah, to the border of Abel-meholah, by Tabbath.
And David gave his parcels into the hands of the keeper of the army stores, and went running to the army and came to his brothers to get knowledge about them.
And death came to Samuel: and all Israel came together, weeping for him, and put his body in itself resting-place in his house at Ramah. Then David went down to the waste land of Maon.
for not into holy places made with hands did the Christ enter -- The figures of the true -- but into the heaven itself, now to be manifested in the presence of God for us;
But after they had taken it away, the hand of Jehovah was stretched out against the village for itself destruction: and the signs of disease came out on all the men of the village, small and great.
Now on that same night Yahweh said to him, "Take the bull of the cattle that belongs to your father, and a second bull seven years old, and pull down the altar of Baal that belongs to your father, and cut down the Asherah that is besides it;
And Samson answered him: From this day I shall be guiltless in what I do against the Philistines. for I will do you evils.
And I especially press upon you to do this, so that I may be restored to you more quickly.
When Eli heard the noise of the outcry, he said, "What is the noise of this commotion?" Then the man came quickly and told Eli.
And David said to Abiathar the priest, Ahimelech's son, I pray thee, bring me hither the ephod. And Abiathar brought thither the ephod to David.
So David and Abisai came to the people by night, and found Saul lying and sleeping in the tent, and his spear fixed in the ground at his head: and Abner and the people sleeping round about him.
(In former time in Israel, when a man went to ask counsel of God, he said, Come, and let us go to the seer; for he that is now called a prophet was in former time called a Seer.)
How much more, if perhaps the people had eaten freely to-day of the plunder of their enemies which they found? For now hast there been no great slaughter among the Philistines."
And they told Sisera that Barak the son of Abinoam had gone up to mount Tabor.
So Abimelech and the people with him got up by night, in four hordes, to make a surprise attack on Shechem.
They struck at that time about ten thousand men of Moab, every strong man, and every man of valor. No man escaped.
If they say to us: 'Wait until we reach you,' then we will stand as we are and not go up to them.
And Manoah said to his wife, "We will certainly die because we have seen God."
But when they came up out of Egypt, he walked through the desert to the Red Sea and came into Cades.
But the vine said to them, Am I to give up my wine, which makes glad God and men, to go waving over the trees?
Here is my virgin daughter and his concubine. Please, let me bring them out; do violence to them, and do to them whatever you please. Do not do this disgraceful thing to this man."
and every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
For it is borne witness, *Thou* art a priest for ever according to the ordinance of Melchisedec.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David, I pray thee, stand before me; for he hath found favor in my sight.
(for the law brought nothing to perfection,) but a bringing in of a better hope, by which we draw nigh to God.
In the morning her master got up, and he opened the doors of the house and went out to go on his journey, and behold, his concubine was falling at the entrance of the house, with her hand on the threshold.
And while Saul spoke to the priest, there arose a great tumult arise in the camp of the Philistines: and it increased by steps, and was heard more clearly. And Saul said to the priest: Draw in thy hand.
For to which of the angels did he say at any time, "You are my Son. To-day have I become your father?" and again, "I will be to him a Father, and he will be to me a Son?"
Now Saul had given his daughter Michal, David's wife, to Palti the son of Laish of Gallim.
They abandoned Yahweh the God of their ancestors, who brought them out from the land of Egypt. They followed other gods from the gods of the peoples who were around them; and they bowed down to them, and they provoked the anger of Yahweh.
And then, about ten days later, Yahweh struck Nabal and he died.
and the men of Jabesh say [to the Ammonites], `To-morrow we come out unto you, and ye have done to us according to all that good in your eyes.'
Then Jesse called Abinadab, and made him pass before Samuel. He said, "Yahweh hast not chosen this one, either."
And the sons of Israel add to do the evil thing in the eyes of Jehovah, and Jehovah giveth them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
Hear, O ye kings, give ear, ye princes: It is I, it is I, that will sing to Jehovah, I will sing to Jehovah the God of Israel.
And the men of Beth-shemesh said, Who is able to keep his place before Jehovah, this holy God? and to whom may he go from us?
But we are not of those who shrink back to destruction, but of those who have faith to the saving of the soul.
And now, I pray thee, hearken thou also to the voice of thy bondmaid, and let me set a morsel of bread before thee; and eat, that thou mayest have strength when thou goest on thy way.
And when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, Jehovah raised up a deliverer to the children of Israel, who delivered them, Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
For as Yahweh lives, who delivers Israel, I swear that even if it is in Jonathan my son, he will certainly die!" But nobody from all the army answered him.
And David wasted all the land, and left neither man nor woman remaining: and took away the sheep and oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the apparel, and returned and came to Achis.
And Gilead's wife bore him sons; and when his wife's sons were grown, they drove Jephthah, and said to him, Thou shalt not inherit in our father's house; for thou art the son of another woman.
And there was trembling in the host, in the field, and among all the people: the garrison, and the spoilers, they also trembled, and the earth quaked: so it was a very great trembling.
Not that I seek gift, but I seek for the profit that increases to your account.
And there cometh a man of God unto Eli, and saith unto him, `Thus said Jehovah, Was I really revealed unto the house of thy father in their being in Egypt, before Pharaoh's house,
Because they are only rules of the flesh, of things and drinks and washings, who have their place till the time comes when things will be put right.
And they answered, We will willingly give them. And they spread a garment, and did cast therein every man the rings of his prey.
The number of days that David lived in the countryside of the Philistines was one year and four months.
if you have acted in good faith and sincerity with Jerub-Baal and his house this day, then rejoice in Abimelech, and let him also rejoice in you.
Now therefore see the king whom you have chosen, and whom you have asked for. Behold, Yahweh hast set a king over you.
And he took the elders of the city, and thorns of the wilderness and briars, and with them he taught the men of Succoth.
By faith Noah, having received an answer concerning the things which as yet were not seen, moved with fear, formed the ark for the saving of his house, by the which he condemned the world; and was instituted heir of the righteousness which is by faith.
And Jephthah addeth yet and sendeth messengers unto the king of the Bene-Ammon,
And the sons of Benjamin hear that the sons of Israel have gone up to Mizpah. And the sons of Israel say, `Speak ye, how hath this evil been?'
He also stripped off his clothes, and he also prophesied before Samuel, and lay down naked all that day and all that night. Therefore they say, "Is Saul also among the prophets?"
And Saul was still waiting in the farthest part of Geba, under the fruit-tree in Migron: there were about six hundred men with him;
And when he was dead, all the men of Israel that were with him, returned to their homes.
Offering the word of life; so that I may have glory in you in the day of Christ, because my running was not for nothing and my work was not without effect.
And Jonathan smote the garrison of the Philistines that was in Geba, and the Philistines heard of it. And Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
And Gideon perceived that he was an angel of Jehovah; and Gideon said, Alas, Lord Jehovah! for because I have seen an angel of Jehovah face to face 
And know also *ye*, O Philippians, that in beginning of the gospel, when I came out of Macedonia, no assembly I laid to me in way of giving and receiving save *ye* alone;
They turned aside there, to go in to stay in Gibeah. He went in, and sat down in the street of the city; for there was no one who took them into his house to stay.
For I am in a narrow betwixt two, having a desire to depart, and to be with Christ; which is far better:
While they were taking their pleasure at the meal, the good-for-nothing men of the village came round the house, giving blows on the door; and they said to the old man, the master of the house, Send out that man who came to your house, so that we may take our pleasure with him.
It came to pass, when David had finished speaking these words to Saul, that Saul said, "Is that your voice, my son David?" Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
From there they went on to the hill-country of Ephraim and came to the house of Micah.
And the Amorites forced the children of Dan into the hill-country, for they would not suffer them to come down to the valley.
You have not yet resisted to the point of shedding your blood as you struggle against sin.
having therefore, brethren, boldness for entering into the [holy of] holies by the blood of Jesus,
Then Ibzan died and was buried in Beth-lehem.
`Jehovah doth judge between me and thee, and Jehovah hath avenged me of thee, and my hand is not on thee;
And the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel: and because of the Midianites the children of Israel made them the caves which are in the mountains, and caves, and strongholds.
The priest answered David, and said, "I have no common bread, but there is holy bread; if only the young men have kept themselves from women."
Many, indeed, have been made priests, because they are hindered from continuing by death.
They spoke to him, saying, "No; but we will bind you securely, and deliver you into their hands; but surely we will not kill you." They bound him with two new ropes, and brought him up from the rock.
When they went from there to Gibeah, a procession of prophets met him, and the Spirit of God rushed upon him, and he prophesied among them.
And Saul sent messengers to take David: and when they saw the company of the prophets prophesying, and Samuel standing as appointed over them, the Spirit of God was upon the messengers of Saul, and they also prophesied.
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight: and Israel went out to war against the Philistines, and encamped by the Stone of help. And the Philistines came to Aphec,
And now this blessing which thine handmaid hath brought unto my lord, let it be given unto the young men that follow my lord.
Because even in Thessalonica you sent once and again to me in my need.
I said, Now the Philistines will come down on me at Gilgal, and I have made no prayer for help to Jehovah: and so, forcing myself to do it, I made a burned thereof.
For they did not endure that which was said: And if so much as a beast shall touch the mount, it shall be stoned.
And the cities which the Philistines have taken from Israel are restored to Israel -- from Ekron even unto Gath -- and their border hath Israel delivered out of the hand of the Philistines; and there is peace between Israel and the Amorite.
And the asses of Kish, Sauls father, were lost; and Cis said to his son Saul: Take one of the servants with thee, and arise, go, and seek asses. And when they had passed through the hill-country of Ephraim,
And others had proof of mockeries and stripes, moreover also of bands and prisons.
Then the congregation sent and spoke all this to the descendants of Benjamin who were at the rock of Rimmon, and they assured them they would not be hurt.
And Gideon went and prepared a young goat and unleavened cakes from an ephah of flour; he put food in a basket, and the broth he put in a pot, and he brought them to him under the oak and presented them.
Then Gedeon taking ten men of his servants, did as Jehovah had commanded him. But fearing his father's house, and the men of that city, he would not do it by day, but did all by night.
And Joshua son of Nun, servant of Jehovah, dieth, a son of a hundred and ten years,
When the army came back to the camp, the elders of Israel asked, "Why hast Yahweh defeated us to-day before the Philistines? Let us bring the ark of the covenant of Yahweh to us from Shiloh so that it may come into our midst and deliver us from the hand of our enemies."
Esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt: for he had respect unto the recompense of the reward.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Ishui, and Melchishua: and the names of his two daughters were these: the name of the first-born Merab, and the name of the younger Michal:
But all Israel had to go to the Philistines to get their ploughs and blades and hatchet and hooks made sharp;
and he gathereth unto him the Bene-Ammon and Amalek, and goeth and smiteth Israel, and they possess the city of palms;
and all the men of Israel when they see the man flee from his presence, and are greatly afraid.
For we are made partakers of Christ, if we hold the beginning of our confidence stedfast unto the end:
Then Gaal son of Ebed said, "Who is Abimelech, and who are we of Shechem that we should serve him? Is he not the son of Jerub-Baal, and is not Zebul his chief officer? Serve the men of Hamor the father of Shechem. Why should we serve him?
And the king said to her, Be not afraid; but what didst thou see? And the woman said to Saul, I saw a god ascending out of the earth.
And Hannah prayed, and said, My heart rejoiceth in Jehovah, my horn is exalted in Jehovah: my mouth is enlarged over mine enemies; because I rejoice in thy salvation.
Therefore I also said, 'I will not drive them out from before you; but they shall be in your sides, and their gods will be a snare to you.'"
Now when these things were thus ordained, the priests went always into the first tabernacle, accomplishing the service of God.
wherefore, also from one were begotten -- and that of one who had become dead -- as the stars of heaven in multitude, and as sand that by the sea-shore -- the innumerable.
When Israel had grown strong, they put the Canaanites to forced labor, and did not utterly drive them out.
and bringeth nigh before Saul, and before his servants, and they eat, and arise, and go on, during that night.
As to the rest, brethren, as many things as are true, as many as grave, as many as righteous, as many as pure, as many as lovely, as many as of good report, if any worthiness, and if any praise, these things think upon;
saying above -- `Sacrifice, and thereof, and burnt-offerings, and concerning sin-offering Thou didst not will, nor delight in,' -- which according to the law are offered --
So that you may give your approval to the best things; that you may be true and without wrongdoing till the day of Christ;
Then said I, Lo, I come (in the roll of the book it is written of me,) to do thy will, O God.
And Gideon saith, `Therefore -- in Jehovah's giving Zebah and Zalmunna into my hand -- I have threshed your flesh with the thorns of the wilderness, and with the threshing instruments.'
So Gaal went out before the lords of Shechem and fought against Abimelech.
And she said to him, My father, if thou hast opened thy mouth to Jehovah, do to me according to that which hast proceeded out of thy mouth, forasmuch as even Jehovah, hast taken vengeance for thee upon thine enemies, upon the children of Ammon.
And Saul said, Am I not a man of Benjamin, the smallest of all the tribes of Israel? and my family the least of the families of Benjamin? why then do you say these words to me?
And so he made it a rule and an order for Israel from that day till now.
And Samuel calleth the people unto Jehovah to Mizpeh,
And they two made a covenant before Jehovah; and David abode in the wood, and Jonathan went to his house.
And Jonathan gave his weapons to his lad, and said to him, Go, carry them to the city.
And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him and were greatly afraid.
since he longed for you all, and was very troubled, because you had heard that he was sick.
For then they would have ceased to be offered: because the worshippers once cleansed should have no conscience of sin any longer:
And Jonathan giveth his weapons unto the youth whom he hath, and saith to him, `Go, carry into the city.'
You made him a little lower than angels. You crowned him with glory and honor.
Move not, I pray Thee, from this, till my coming in unto Thee, and I have brought out my present, and put it before Thee;' and he saith, `I -- I do abide till thy return.'
to those in Beth-El, and to those in South Ramoth, and to those in Jattir,
And they cried to Jehovah, who raised them up a saviour, and delivered them, to wit, Othoniel the son of Cenez, the younger brother of Caleb:
And Jonathan told David, speaking: Saul my father seeketh to kill thee: wherefore look to thyself, I beseech thee, in the morning, and thou shalt abide in the secret place and shalt be hid.
Take care that no one falls short of the grace of God; that no one growing up like a root of bitterness causes trouble, and by it many become defiled;
Now Hannah had been speaking in her heart; her lips were moving, but her voice could not be heard, so Eli considered her to be drunk.
hast at the end of these days spoken to us by his Son, whom he appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the worlds.
For everyone who takes milk is without experience of the word of righteousness: he is a child.
And even Jehovah, saith unto Gideon, `Yet the people too many; bring them down unto the water, and I refine it for thee there; and it hath been he of whom I say unto thee, This doth go with thee -- he doth go with thee; and any of whom I say unto thee, This doth not go with thee -- he doth not go.'
and God repaid all the wickedness of the men of Shechem on their heads; and the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbaal came on them.
But to-day you are turned away from your God, who himself hast been your saviour from all your troubles and sorrows; and you have said to him, Put a king over us. So now, take your places before Jehovah by your tribes and by your thousands.
And Saul swore unto her by Jehovah, speaking: As Jehovah liveth there shall no mischief happen to thee for this thing.
And when Saul saw David go forth against the Philistine, he said unto Abner, the captain of the host, Abner, whose son is this youth? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I cannot tell.
For it hast been witnessed of him, You are a priest for ever After the order of Melchizedek.
And the sons of Israel repent concerning Benjamin their brother, and say, `There hath been to-day cut off one tribe from Israel,
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baals, and the Ashtoreths, and the gods of Syria, and the gods of Sidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines; and they forsook Jehovah, and served him not.
And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to David, and gave him bread, and he did eat; and they made him drink water;
The five princes of the Philistines, and all the Chanaanites, and the Sidonians; and the Hevites that dwelt in mount Libanus, from mount Baal Hermon to the entrance into Emath.
Now the Philistine came out morning and evening, and presented himself forty days.
But now he hast obtained a more excellent ministry, by so much as he is also the mediator of a better covenant, which on better promises hast been given as law.
but to Hannah he gave a double portion, for he loved Hannah, but Yahweh had shut up her womb.
Benjamin went out against them out of Gibeah the second day, and destroyed down to the ground of the children of Israel again eighteen thousand men. All these drew the sword.
They said to him, "Hold your peace, put your hand on your mouth, and go with us, and be to us a father and a priest. Is it better for you to be priest to the house of one man, or to be priest to a tribe and a family in Israel?"
by so much Jesus became surety of a better covenant.
Then loudly the feet of the horses were sounding with the stamping, the stamping of their war-horses.
And it shall be, that in the morning, as soon as the sun is up, thou shalt rise early, and set upon the city: and, behold, when he and the people that is with him come out against thee, then wilt thou do to them as thou shalt find occasion.
And all the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and put themselves in array at Baal-Tamar; and the ambush of Israel rushed forth out of their place, out of the meadows of Geba.
And Samuel hath not added to see Saul till the day of his death, for Samuel mourned for Saul, and Jehovah repented that He had caused Saul to reign over Israel.
And the man, the Levite, husband of the woman who hath been murdered, answereth and saith, `Into Gibeah (which to Benjamin) I have come, I and my concubine, to lodge;
And opening all his heart to her, he said to her, My head hast never been touched by a shoulder-blade, for I have been separate to God from the day of my birth: if my hair is cut off, then my strength will go from me and I will become feeble, and will be like any other man.
He captured a young man from Succoth and questioned him. The young man listed for him the commanders of Succoth and itself elders, seventy-seven men.
and they are to prove Israel by them, to know whether they obey the commands of Jehovah that He commanded their fathers by Moses.
And she dwelt under the palm-tree of Deborah between Ramah and Beth-el in mount Ephraim: and the children of Israel came up to her for judgment.
And said to him, Have no fear, for Saul my father will not get you into his power; and you will be king of Israel, and I will be by your side, and my father Saul is certain of this.
And Saul said to his uncle: He told us that the asses were found. But of the matter of the kingdom of which Samuel had spoken to him, he told him not.
And Jotham escaped and fled, and went to Beer; he remained there because of Abimelech his brother.
For if we keep on sinning deliberately after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice for sins,
Then on the seventh day, before he went into the bride's chamber, the men of the village said to him, What is sweeter than honey? and what is stronger than a lioness, And he said unto them, If you had not been ploughing with my cow you would not have bought the answer to my question.
how shall we escape, having neglected so great salvation? which a beginning receiving -- to be spoken through Jehovah -- by those having heard was confirmed to us,
And David and his men went up and made a raid upon the Geshurites, and the Gerzites, and the Amalekites: for those were of old the inhabitants of the land, as thou goest to Shur; and as far as the land of Egypt.
go, I pray you, prepare again, and know and see his place where his foot is; who hath seen him there? for hath said unto me, He is very subtile.
and of this being persuaded, I know that I shall remain and continue with you all, to your advancement and joy of the faith,
And Samson said, "With the jawbone of the donkey, heap upon heap, with the jawbone of the donkey, I struck dead one thousand men."
So we see that they were not able to go in because they had no belief.
Kish, the father of Saul, and Ner, the father of Abner, were sons of Abiel.
And he said unto them, Why do ye such things? for I hear of your evil dealings by all this people.
For our country is in heaven; from where the Saviour for whom we are waiting will come, even the Lord Jesus Christ;
and gave him a piece of fig-cake and two raisin-cakes, and he ate, and his spirit came again to him; for he had eaten no bread, nor drunk any water, for three days and three nights.
Jephthah came to Mizpah, to his house, and behold his daughter came out to meet him with tambourines and dancing. She was his only child; he did not have a son or daughter except her.
That the daughters of Israel went yearly to lament the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite four days in a year.
But now they desire a better country, that is, an heavenly: wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God; for he hath prepared for them a city.
And it is yet far more evident: for that after the likeness of Melchisedec there ariseth another priest,
Now as they were making their hearts merry; behold, the men of the city, certain sons fellow, beset the house round about, and beat at the door, and spake to the master of the house, the old man, saying, Bring forth the man that came into thy house, that we may know him.
Then the Spirit of Jehovah came on Jephthah, and he went through Gilead and Manasseh, and came to Mizpeh of Gilead? and from Mizpeh of Gilead he went over to the children of Ammon.
I will put this fleece of wool on the threshing-floor, if there be dew on the fleece only, and it be dry on all the ground beside, I, shall know that by my hand, as thou hast said, thou wilt deliver Israel.
And after him rose up Jair, a Gileadite; and he judged Israel twenty-two years.
Therefore leaving the teaching of the first principles of Christ, let us winepress on to perfectionnot laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works, of faith toward God,
Righteous then, Saul was coming from the field behind the cattle. Saul said, "What is the matter with the people, that they are weeping?" So they recounted to him the words of the men of Jabesh.
And Jehovah sent thee on a journey, and said, Go and utterly destroy the sinners the Amalekites, and fight against them until they be consumed.
But to our God and Father glory to the ages of ages. Amen.
By faith Jacob gave a blessing to the two sons of Joseph, when he was near to death; and gave God worship, supported by his stick.
The men of Ashdod, saw that it was so, and they said, "The ark of the God of Israel should not remain with us, because his hand is harsh on us and on Dagon our god!"
And his sons walked not in his ways, but turned aside after lucre, and took bribe, and perverted judgment.
And Gideon said to God, Let not thine anger be hot against me, and I will speak but this once! Let me prove, I pray thee, but this once with the fleece; let it, I pray thee, be dry upon the fleece only, and upon all the ground let there be dew.
And Saul sent messengers to David's house, to watch him, and to slay him in the morning; and Michal David's wife told him, saying, If thou save not thy life to-night, to-morrow thou wilt be put to death.
By faith Abraham, when he was called, obeyed to go out to a place that he was going to receive for an inheritance, and he went out, not knowing where he was going.
Who will listen to you in this matter? For as his share is who goes down to the battle, so shall his share be who stays with the baggage. They shall share alike."
And it came to pass, when Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled to David to Keilah, that he came down with an ephod in his hand.
And Gedeon said to him: I beseech thee, my lord, if Jehovah be with us, why have these evils fallen upon us? Where are his signs, which our fathers have told us of, speaking: Jehovah brought us Out of Egypt? but now Jehovah hath forsaken us, and delivered us into the bands of Madian.
Then Achish said to his servants, "Look, you see a madman! Why did you bring him to me?
Above when he said, Sacrifice and offering and burnt-offerings and offering for sin thou wouldest not, neither hadst pleasure therein; which are offered by the law;
And when they had come to the land of Zuph, Saul said to the servant who was with him, Come, let us go back, or my father may give up caring about the asses and be troubled about us.
Now after Abimelech, Tola, the son of Puah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar, became the Saviour of Israel; he was living in Shamir in the hill-country of Ephraim.
And the Philistines gather their camps to battle, and are gathered to Shochoh, which to Judah, and encamp between Shochoh and Azekah, in Ephes-Dammim;
Then Samuel said to Jesse, "Are all the young men here?" And he said, "The youngest still remains, but look, he is shepherding the flock." And Samuel said to Jesse, "Send and bring him, for we cannot sit down until he comes here."
How much more, do you think he deserveth worse punishments, who hath trodden under foot the Son of God, and hath esteemed the blood of the covenant unclean, by which he was sanctified, and hath offered an affront to the Spirit of grace?
And Samuel saith unto the people, `Come and we go to Gilgal, and renew the kingdom there;'
Behold, days come, that I will cut off thy arm, and the arm of thy father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thy house.
For I have no man likeminded, who will naturally care for your state.
So they sent God's ark to Ekron. As God's ark came to Ekron, the Ekronites cried out, saying, "They have brought about the ark of the God of Israel to us, to kill us and our people."
For the bodies of the beasts whose blood is taken into the holy place by the high priest as an offering for sin are burned outside the circle of the tents.
And Samuel said to Saul, Why hast thou disquieted me, to bring me up? And Saul answered, I am sore distressed; for the Philistines make war against me, and God is departed from me, and answereth me no more, neither by prophets, nor by dreams: therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest make known unto me what I shall do.
And there is not a creature unapparent before him; but all things naked and laid bare to his eyes, with whom we have to do.
Whence shall they take women? For we have all in captain sworn, not to give our daughters to them.
and David sendeth ten young men, and David saith to the young men, `Go ye up to Carmel, and ye have come in unto Nabal, and asked of him in my name of welfare,
And he inquired of Jehovah for him, and gave him victuals, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine.
Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, "Didn't you hate me, and drive me out of my father's house? Why have you come to me now when you are in distress?"
And eighteen thousand men from Benjamin fell, all of them able men.
that through them I may prove Israel, whether they will keep the way of even Jehovah, to walk therein, as their fathers did keep , or not.
and Sisera calleth all his chariots, nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people who with him, from Harosheth of the Goyim, unto the brook Kishon.
And the bramble said unto the trees, If in truth ye anoint me king over you, then come and put your trust in my shade; yea, and if not, let fire come out of the bramble, and devour the cedars of Lebanon.
But when the cloud began to arise up out of the city in a pillar of smoke, the Benjamites looked behind them; and behold, the whole city went up in smoke to the skies.
And what more do I say? For the time would fail me telling of Gideon, and Barak, and Samson, and Jephthah, and David and Samuel, and of the prophets:
And when he had made an end of prophesying, he came to the high place.
And it cometh to pass from that day and forward, that he setteth up it for a statute and for an ordinance for Israel unto this day.
Who is going to give any attention to you in this question? for an equal part will be given to him who went to the fight and to him who was waiting by the substance; they are all to have the same.
And in Hebron, and to all the places where David and his men had been living.
Am I to take my bread and my wine and the food I have bought ready for my wool-cutters and give it to men coming from I have no idea where?
Saul encamped in the hill of Hachilah, which is before the wilderness, by the way. But David stayed in the wilderness, and he saw that Saul came after him into the wilderness.
And they called the name of this place Bokim, and there they sacrificed to Yahweh.
For there was a tent made the first, wherein were the candlesticks, and the table, and the setting forth from loaves, which is called the holy.
Gaal the son of Ebed went out, and stood in the entrance of the gate of the city. Abimelech rose up, and the people who were with him, from the ambush.
if any way I arrive at the resurrection from among dead.
And when Samuel saw Saul, Jehovah said unto him, Behold, the man whom I spake to thee of! this same shall reign over my people.
And Samuel said to Isai: Are here all thy sons? He answered: There remaineth yet a young one, who keepeth the sheep. And Samuel said to Isai: Send, and fetch him, for we will not sit down till he come hither.
And the children of Israel came near against the children of Benjamin the second day.
who was faithful to him who appointed him, as also was Moses in all his house.
And on the morrow the Philistines came to strip the slain, and they found Saul and his three sons lying in mount Gelboe.
On the fifth day he rose early in the morning to go, and the father of the young woman said, "Please, enjoy yourself," and they lingered until the day declined, and the two of them ate.
And he separated also therein a little temple for the god, and made an ephod, and theraphim, that is to say, a priestly garment, and idols; and he filled the hand of one of his sons, and he became his priest.
It was the people of Zebulun who put their lives in danger, even to death, with Naphtali on the high places of the field.
And when the men of Ashdod, saw how it was, they said, Let not the ark of the God of Israel be with us, for his hand is hard on us and on Dagon our god.
On the next day, the evil spirit from God rushed upon Saul, and he prophesied in the middle of the house. Now David was playing the lyre with his hand on that day as usual, and the spear was in Saul's hand.
Now on the day after, Saul put the people into three hordes, and in the morning watch they came to the tents of the children of Ammon, and they went on attacking them till the heat of the day: and those who were not put to death were put to flight in every direction, so that no two of them were together.
For indeed he was sick, coming near to death, but God had mercy on him and not on him only, but also on me, so that I would not have grief upon grief.
And David answered the priest and said to him, Yea, indeed, women have been kept from us about these three days, since I came out, and the vessels of the young men are holy, and the is in a manner common, and the more so, because to-day is hallowed in the vessels.
Then Ahimelech answered the king, and said, And who is so faithful among all thy servants as David, which is the king's son in law, and goeth at thy bidding, and is honorable in thy house?
Delilah said to Samson, "Until now, you have mocked me and told me lies. Tell me with what you might be bound." He said to her, "If you weave the seven locks of my head with the web."
The Ziphites came to Saul to Gibeah, saying, "Doesn't David hide himself in the hill of Hachilah, which is before the desert?"
Then Eli said to her, Go in peace: and may the God of Israel give you an answer to the prayer you have made to him.
So both of them uncovered themselves to the garrison of the Philistines; and the Philistines said: Behold the Hebrews come forth out of the clefts wherein they were hid.
But all Israel and Judah loved David, for he came in and went out before them.
When Yahweh's angel spoke these words to all the children of Israel, the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
And they took all the borders of the Amorites, from the Arnon even unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness even unto the Jordan.
Abimelech came to the tower, and fought against it, and came near to the door of the tower to burn it with fire.
But we are not of them that draw back unto perdition; but of them that believe to the saving of the soul.
Among all this people there were seven hundred chosen men left-handed; all these slang stones at a hair , and missed not.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and encamped in Shunem: and Saul gathered all Israel together, and they encamped in Gilboa.
But whithersoever they meant to go, the hand of Jehovah was upon them, as he had said, and as he had sworn to them: and they were greatly distressed.
In those days there was no king in Israel, and each one did what was right in his own eyes;
Neither doth any man take the honor to himself, but he that is called by God, as Aaron was.
And Saul also went to his house at Gibeah, and the troops whose hearts God had touched went with him.
And the Jebusite, inhabiting Jerusalem, the sons of Benjamin have not dispossessed; and the Jebusite dwelleth with the sons of Benjamin, in Jerusalem, till this day.
containing the golden incense altar and the ark of the covenant covered on all sides with gold, in which were a golden jar containing the manna and the rod of Aaron that budded and the tablets of the covenant.
Saul said to the Kenite, "Go, leave! Withdraw from among the Amalekite so that I do not destroy you with them. You have shown loyal love to all Israel when they came up from Egypt." So the Kenites left from among the Amalekites.
And the Levite, the husband of the woman that was slain, answered and said, I came into Gibeah that belongeth to Benjamin, I and my concubine, to lodge.
being confident of this very thing, that he, who hath begun a good work in you, will perfect it unto the day of Christ Jesus.
But one of the sons of Achimelech the son of Achitob, whose name was Abiathar, escaped, and fled to David,
And she said: Would that thy handmaid may find favor in thy eyes. So the woman went on her way, and ate, and her countenance was no more changed.
And Micah said to him, Where do you come from? And he said to him, I am a Levite from Beth-lehem-judah, and I am looking for a living-place.
But this, for that he continueth for ever, hath an everlasting priesthood,
by faith Jacob dying -- each of the sons of Joseph did bless, and did bow down upon the top of his staff between two;
And Joash said unto all that stood against him, Will ye plead for Baal? will ye save him? he that will plead for him, let him be put to death Whilst it is yet morning; if he be a god, let him plead for himself, because one hath cast down his altar.
And the Philistines fell upon Saul, and upon his sons, and they slew Jonathan, and Abinadab and Melchisua the sons of Saul.
And Manoah said to him, "Now when your words come true, what will be the boy's manner of life and work?"
For *we* are the circumcision, who worship by Spirit of God, and boast in Christ Jesus, and do not trust in flesh.
David said to Ahimelech, "Isn't there here under your hand spear or sword? For I have neither brought my sword nor my weapons with me, because the king's business required haste."
And they said to Jephthah, "Come and be our commander, so that we may make war against the Ammonites."
When he came, there was Eli sitting on his chair by the side of the road watching, because his heart was anxious about the ark of God. Now the man had come to give his report in the city, and all the city cried out.
Brotherly love must continue.
For this reason there is the more need for us to give attention to the things which have come to our ears, for fear that by chance we might be slipping away.
Then he said, Jehovah is witness against you, and the man on whom he hast put the holy oil is witness this day that you have seen no wrong in me. And they said, He is witness.
and lo, as thy soul hath been great this day in mine eyes, So is my soul great in the eyes of Jehovah, and He doth deliver me out of all distress.'
And they turned before the men of Israel to the way of the wilderness; but the battle overtook them; and those who came out of the cities destroyed them in their midst.
Therefore have I sworn to the house of Heli, that the iniquity of his house shall not be expiated with victims nor offerings for ever.
Jehovah maketh poor, and maketh rich, he bringeth low, also he lifteth up;
And I hope, in the Lord Jesus, Timothy to send quickly to you, that I also may be of good spirit, having known the things concerning you,
And Jehovah said to the children of Israel, Were not the Egyptians and the Amorites and the children of Ammon and the Philistines
and if ye really do evil, both ye and your king are consumed.'
And Saul encamped in the hill of Hachilah, which is before Jeshimon, by the way. But David abode in the wilderness, and he saw that Saul came after him into the wilderness.
For when the people were numbered, behold, there were none of the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead there.
I make this request more strongly, in the hope of coming back to you more quickly.
And I will shoot three arrows on the side thereof, as though I shot at a mark.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried out with a loud voice, and the woman said to Saul, "Why did you deceive me? You are Saul!"
But it seemed to me necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother, who hast taken part with me in the work and in the fight, and your servant, sent by you for help in my need;
And thou hast showed this day how that thou hast dealt well with me, forasmuch as when Jehovah had delivered me up into thy hand, thou didst not kill me.
Gideon went up by the way of those who lived in tents on the east of Nobah and Jogbehah, and struck the army; for the army was secure.
They were stoned, were sawn asunder, were tempted, died by the death of the sword; they went about in sheepskins, in goatskins, destitute, afflicted, evil treated,
Then David said to Abiathar, "I knew on that day that Doeg the Edomite was there, that he would certainly tell Saul. I am responsible for the death of all your father's household!
Then said Jonathan unto David, Whatsoever thy soul desireth, I will do it for thee.
Then the king sent to call Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests that were in Nob: and they came all of them to the king.
For concerning those who were once enlightened and tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Spirit,
Don't forget to show hospitality to strangers, for in doing so, some have entertained angels without knowing it.
for, in that himself hast to being tempted, he is able to help those that are being tempted.
Bows of the mighty are broken, And the stumbling have girded on strength.
by the way which he dedicated for us, a new and living way, through the veil, that is to say, his flesh;
So they sent and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines, and said, Send away the ark of the God of Israel, and let it go again to his own place, that it slay us not, and our people; for there was a deadly destruction throughout all the city; the hand of God was very heavy there.
They said to him, "We have come down to bind you, that we may deliver you into the hand of the Philistines." Samson said to them, "Swear to me that you will not attack me yourselves."
But if you keep doing evil, you will be consumed, both you and your king."
saying, "Surely I will greatly bless you, and I will greatly multiply you."
Now therefore beware, I pray thee, and drink not wine nor strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing;
From heaven was the fight; The stars from their courses fought with Sisera.
And Jehovah will give to every man the reward of his righteousness and his faith: because Jehovah gave you into my hands today, and I would not put out my hand against the man who hast been marked with the holy oil.
And Saul gave ear to the voice of Jonathan, and said with an oath, By the living Lord, he is not to be put to death.
And it came to pass when Saul had returned from following the Philistines, that it was told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of En-gedi.
And Saul said to David, You are not able to go out against this Philistine and have a fight with him: for you are only a boy, and he hast been a man of war from his earliest days.
And they forgot Jehovah their God, and he sold them into the hand of Sisera, captain of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought against them.
being servants of that which is a copy and an image of the things in heaven, as Moses, when he was about to make the Tent, had special orders from God: for, See, he said, that you make everything like the design which you saw in the mountain.
let our lord command, we pray thee, thy servants before thee, they seek a skilful man, playing on a harp, and it hath come to pass, in the spirit of sadness God being upon thee, that he hath played with his hand, and [it is] well with thee.'
And she said to him, My father, you have made an oath to Jehovah; do then to me whatever you have said, for Jehovah hast sent a full reward on your haters, on the children of Ammon.
When he came to Lehi, the Philistines shouted as they met him. Then Yahweh's Spirit came mightily on him, and the ropes that were on his arms became as flax that was burnt with fire, and his bands dropped from off his hands.
"Speak, you who ride on white donkeys, you who sit on rich carpets, and you who walk by the way.
And David did not leave alive a man or a woman to bring them back to Gath, thinking, "So that they will not report about us, saying, 'David did thus and so.'" Thus was his practice all the days that he lived in the countryside of the Philistines.
Saul went up from pursuing the Philistines, and the Philistines went to their place.
He stood, and cried to the armies of Israel, and said to them, "Why have you come out to set your battle in array? Am I not a Philistine, and you servants to Saul? Choose a man for yourselves, and let him come down to me.
"Because the leaders took the lead in Israel, because the people offered themselves willingly; be blessed, Yahweh!
And the Philistines stood on the mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on the mountain on the other side; and the ravine was between them.
and to those in Hebron, and to all the places where David had gone up and down, he and his men.
and one in a certain place did testify fully, saying, `What is man, that Thou art mindful of him, or a son of man, that Thou dost look after him?
Formerly in Israel, thus said the man in his going to seek God, `Come and we go unto the seer,' for the `prophet' of to-day is called formerly `the seer.'
And Jehovah said to the children of Israel, Did I not [save you] from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
And he said to Heli: I am he that came from the battle, and have fled out of the field this day. And he said to him: What is there done, my son?
And this is the covenant which I will make unto them after those days, saith Jehovah. I will give my laws in their heart, and on their minds will I write them:
And Samuel took a sucking-lamb, and offered it as a whole burnt-offering to Jehovah; and Samuel cried to even Jehovah, for Israel, and Jehovah answered him.
By faith Isaac, blessing Jacob and Esau, gave news of things to come.
And the vision was so overpowering that even Moses said, I am shaking and full of fear.
But to Hannah he would give a double portion, because he loved Hannah, though Yahweh had closed her womb.
The Midianites, and the Amalekite and all the children of the east lay along in the valley like locusts for multitude; and their camels were without number, as the sand which is on the seashore for multitude.
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and to-day and for ever.
quenched the power of fire, escaped the mouth of the sword, were made powerful out of weaknesses, became strong in battle, caused to give way camps of the aliens.
But he refused, and said, I will not eat. But his servants, together with the woman, compelled him; and he hearkened unto their voice. So he arose from the earth, and sat upon the bed.
Yahweh, when you went down from Seir, when you were marching from the region of Edom, the earth trembled, the heavens poured down, the clouds poured down water.
Should a man arise to pursue you and to seek your life, may the life of my lord be wrapped in the pouch of the living with Yahweh your God. But as for the life of your enemy, he will sling it from within the pocket of the sling!
So David learned of Yahweh, saying, "Shall I go and attack these Philistines?" And Yahweh said to David, "Go and attack the Philistines and save Keilah."
And David had taken Ahinoam of Jezreel, to be his wife; these two were his wives.
She said to him, "How can you say, 'I love you,' when your heart is not with me? You have mocked me these three times, and have not told me where your great strength lies."
Now he went out from the city of Beth-lehem, and desired to sojourn wheresoever he should find it right for him. And when he was come to the hill-country of Ephraim, as he was on his journey, and had turned aside a little into the house of Michas,
Saul said, "They have brought them from the Amalekites; for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the cattle, to sacrifice to Yahweh your God. We have utterly destroyed the rest."
of whom the world was not worthy; in deserts her wandering, and mountains, and caves, and the clefts of the earth;
and he turneth back after days to take her, and turneth aside to see the carcass of the lion, and lo, a company of bees in the body of the lion -- and honey.
For God is true, and will not put away from him the memory of your work and of your love for his name, in the help which you gave and still give to the saints.
Speak, ye that ride on white asses, ye that sit in justice, and walk by the way.
And Delilah said to Samson, Behold, thou hast mocked me and told me lies. Now tell me, I pray thee, with what thou mightest be bound.
And they two made a covenant before Jehovah: and David abode in the wood, and Jonathan went to his house.
As for your asses which have been wandering for three days, give no thought to them, for they have come back. And for whom are all the desired things in Israel? are they not for you and your father's family?
And every priest stands every day serving and offering the same sacrifices many times, which are never able to take away sins.
Then the Levite, the husband of the dead woman, said in answer, I came to Gibeah in the land of Benjamin, I and my servant-wife, for the purpose of stopping there for the night.
Speak, I pray you, in the ears of all the citizens of Shechem, which is better for you, that seventy persons, all sons of Jerubbaal, rule over you, or that one man rule over you? And remember that I am your bone and your flesh.
And they gave him seventy weight of silver out of the temple of Baalberith: wherewith he hired to himself men that were needy, and vagabonds, and they followed him.
in the saying `new,' He hath made a year old, and what doth become obsolete and is old nigh disappearing.
And that night Yahweh said to him, "Get up; go down against the camp, for I have given it into your hand.
Thou hast made him some little inferior to the angels; thou crownest him with glory and honor, [and hast set him over the works of thy hands;]
The man rose up to depart; but his father-in-law urged him, and he stayed there again.
for of more glory than Moses hath this one been counted worthy, inasmuch as more honor than the house hath he who doth build it,
And blessed be thou, who hast kept me to day, from coming to blood, and revenging me with mine own hand.
So the man, the owner of the house, went out to them and said to them, "No, my brothers, do not act wickedly; since this man hast come into my house, do not do this disgraceful thing.
And after the second veil, the tent which is called the Holiest of all;
and also, the Pre-eminence of Israel doth not lie nor repent, for He not a man to be penitent.'
And because I am convicted by this, I know that I will remain and continue with all of you for your progress and joy in the faith,
He will take your male servants, your female servants, your best young men, and your donkeys, and assign them to his own work.
Now it came to pass one day that Jonathan the son of Saul said to the young man that bore his armor, Come, and let us go over to the Philistines' garrison which is on the other side. But he did not tell his father.
Then David and his men, who were about six hundred, arose and departed out of Keilah, and went whithersoever they could go. And it was told Saul that David was escaped from Keilah; and he forbare to go forth.
He turned away from him toward another, and spoke like that again; and the people answered him again the same way.
But one in a certain place hath testified, speaking: What is man, that thou art mindful of him: or the son of man, that thou visitest him?
Then he presented the tribute to Eglon king of Moab. Now Eglon was a very fat man.
Who said to his mother: The eleven hundred pieces of silver, which thou hadst put aside for thyself, and concerning which thou didst swear in my hearing, behold, I have, and they are with me. And she said to him: Blessed be my son by the Lord.
For let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus:
And he sent unto them a prophet, and he spoke: Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel: I made you to come up out of Egypt, and brought you out of the house of bondage,
And now give up the men, the sons fellow, who are in Gibeah, that we may put them to death, and put away the evil from Israel. But [the children of] Benjamin would not hearken to the voice of their brethren the children of Israel.
Again he said unto her, Stand in the door of the tent, and it shall be, when any man doth come and inquire of thee, and say, Is there any man here? that thou shalt say, No.
And Phinees the son of Eleazar the son of Aaron was over the house. So they consulted Jehovah and said: Shall we go out any more to fight against the children of Benjamin our brethren, or shall we cease? And Jehovah said to them: Go up, for to-morrow I will deliver them into your hands.
And David stopped his men with his words, and suffered them not to rise against Saul. But Saul rising up out of the cave, went on his way.
And he said unto him, If now I have found favor in thy sight, then show me a sign that thou speakest with me.
She put her hand to the nail, and her right hand to the workmen's hammer; and with the hammer she smote Sisera, she smote off his head, when she had pierced and well stricken through his temples.
And Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel. And the land had rest eighty years.
And David said to Abigail, May Jehovah, the God of Israel, be praised, who sent you to me today:
And Saul's uncle said to him, and to his servant: Whither went you? They answered: to seek the asses: and not finding them we went to Samuel.
for also with my bonds ye sympathised, and the violence of your goods with joy ye did receive, knowing that ye have in yourselves a better substance in the heavens, and an enduring one.
And Samuel said to Jesse, Are these all the young men? And he said, There is yet the youngest remaining, and behold, he is feeding the sheep. And Samuel said to Jesse, Send and fetch him; for we will not sit at table till he come hither.
And he smiteth them hip and thigh -- a great smiting, and goeth down and dwelleth in the hoof cloven of the rock Etam.
And the people gave him this answer, So it will be done to the man who overcomes him.
"This is the covenant that I will decree for them after those days, says Jehovah: I am putting my laws on their hearts, and I will write them on their minds."
And behold, Saul came, following oxen out of the field, and he said: What aileth the people that they weep? And they told him the words of the men of Jabes.
He said to them, "Watch me, and do likewise. Behold, when I come to the outermost part of the camp, it shall be that, as I do, so you shall do.
And if a man is risen up to pursue thee and to seek thy life, the soul of my lord shall be bound in the bundle of the living with Jehovah thy God; and the souls of thine enemies, them shall he sling out from the hollow of the sling.
And the woman said to him: Behold, thou knowest all that Saul hath done, and how he hath rooted out the magicians and soothsayers from the land: why dost thou lay a snare for my life, to cause me to be put to death?
When your fathers tempted me, Proved me, and saw my works forty years.
And we desire each one of you to demonstrate the same diligence for the full assurance of your hope until the end,
By faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months of his parents, because they saw he was a language child; and they were not afraid of the king's commandment.
`And it hath been when Jehovah doth to my lord according to all the good which He hath spoken concerning thee, and appointed thee for leader over Israel,
and, on account of this , he aught, even as for the people, so also for himself, to offer for sins.
Then Abigail quickly took two hundred loaves of bread, two skins of wine, five prepared sheep, five seahs of roasted grain, a hundred raisin cakes, and two hundred fig cakes, and she put them on the donkeys.
And the men of Ziph came to Saul in Gabaa, speaking: Behold David is hid in the hill of Hachila, which is over against the wilderness.
And there were Hebrews with the Philistines before that time, who had gone up with them into the camp round about; and they also to be with the Israelites who were with Saul and Jonathan.
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Chushan-rishathaim king of Mesopotamia; and the children of Israel served Chushan-rishathaim eight years.
And Saul was exceeding angry, and this word was displeasing in his eyes, and he said: They have given David ten thousands, and to me they have given but a thousand; what can he have more but the kingdom?
A blessing on your good sense and on you, who have kept me to-day from the matter of blood and from taking into my hands the punishment for my wrongs.
And Saul answered and said, Am not I the Benjamite, of the smallest of the tribes of Israel? and my family the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? wherefore then speakest thou so to me?
And David prospered in all his ways; and Jehovah was with him.
And it came to pass in those days, when there was no king in Israel, that there was a certain Levite time on the side of the hill-country of Ephraim, who took to him a concubine out of Beth-lehem-judah.
The servant said to him, "Behold now, there is in this city a man of God, and he is a man who is held in honor. All that he says surely happens. Now let us go there. Perhaps he can tell us which way to go."
And Saul commanded his servants, Speak with David secretly, saying, Behold, the king hast delight in thee, and all his servants love thee: now therefore be the king's son-in-law.
For such a high priest became us, holy, harmless, undefiled, separated from sinners, and become higher than the heavens:
Now the house was full of men and women; and all the lords of the Philistines were there; and there were upon the roof about three thousand men and women, that beheld while Samson made sport.
that ye may judge of and approve the things that are excellent, in order that ye may be pure and without offence for Christ's day,
Not as if I had even now bought the reward or been made complete: but I go on in the hope that I may come to the knowledge of that for which I was made the servant of Christ Jesus.
And with grief in her soul, weeping bitterly, she made her prayer to Jehovah.
and Saul chooseth for himself three thousand out of Israel; and two thousand are with Saul in Michmash and in the hill-country of Beth-El; and a thousand have been with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin: and the remnant of the people he hath sent each to his tents.
Then went Samson down with his father and his mother to Timna, and came to the vineyards of Timnah; and behold, a young lion groaned against him.
Know ye that the brother Timothy is released, with whom, if he may come more shortly, I will see you.
However, Jonathan had not heard about the oath of his father with the army, so he extended the end of the staff which was in his hand, and he dipped it into the droppings of the honeycomb. Then he put his hand to his mouth and his eyes gleamed.
and God's lamp hadn't yet gone out, and Samuel had laid down in Yahweh's temple, where God's ark was;
For it is impossible for those who were once illuminated, have tasted also the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Spirit,
Then Zebah and Zalmunna said, Rise thou, and fall on us; for as is the man, so is his strength. And Gideon arose, and slew Zebah and Zalmunna; and he took the moon that were on their camels' necks.
And he answered her: Go. And he sent her away for two months. And when she was gone with its comrades and companions, she mourned her virginity in the mountains.
In that day I will perform against Eli all that I have spoken concerning his house; I will begin and make an end.
And ascent from thence, he came to Phanuel: and he spoke the like things to the men of that place. And they also answered him, as the men of Soccoth had answered.
By faith Enoch was translated that he should not see death; and was not found, because God had translated him; for before translation he hast the testimony that he had pleased God.
In saying before, Sacrifices, and oblations, and holocausts for sin thou wouldest not, neither are they pleasing to thee, which are offered according to the law.
Be not carried about with divers and strange doctrines. For it is a good thing that the heart be established with grace, not with meats, which have not profited them that have been traded therein.
He said to them, "Out of the eater came out food. Out of the strong came out sweetness." They couldn't in three days declare the riddle.
And Saul said to Achimelech: Hear, thou son of Achitob. He answered: Here I am, my lord.
And Jonathan riseth from the table in the heat of anger, and hath not eaten food on the second day of the new moon, for he hath been grieved for David, for his father put him to shame.
By faith they passed through the Red Sea, as by dry land: which the Egyptians attempting, were swallowed up.
And Jonathan went up creeping on his hands and feet, and his armorbearer after him. And some fell before Jonathan, others his armorbearer slew as he followed him.
Then Manoah entreated Jehovah, and said, Oh, Lord, let the man of God which thou didst send come again unto us, and teach us what we shall do unto the child that shall be born.
The name of the man was Nabal, and the name of his wife was Abigail. And the woman was wise and beautiful, but the man was stubborn and mean, and he was as his heart.
"I will remember their sins and their iniquities no more."
And she said, The glory is gone from Israel, for the ark of God hast been taken.
And he said unto them, Thus and thus dealeth Micah with me, and hath hired me, and I am his priest.
For if we do evil on purpose after we have had the knowledge of what is true, there is no more oblation for sins,
For you have not come to the mountain that might be touched, and that burned with fire, and to blackness, darkness, storm,
for those in Hormah, for those in Bor Ashan, for those in Athach,
Wherefore lift up the hands which hang down, and the feeble knees;
So David went in flight and got away and came to Ramah, to Samuel, and gave him a account of all Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and were living in Naioth.
And they said, If you send away the ark of the God of Israel, do not send it without an offering, but send him a sin-offering with it; then you will have peace again, and it will be clear to you why the weight of his hand hast not been lifted from you.
The children of Israel again did that which was evil in Yahweh's sight, and served the Baals, the Ashtaroth, the gods of Syria, the gods of Sidon, the gods of Moab, the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines. They abandoned Yahweh, and didn't serve him.
And it answered them: Can I forsake my wine, that cheereth God and men, and be promoted among the other trees?
And the man got up to gohe, his concubine, and his servantbut his father-in-law, the father of the young woman, said to him, "Please, the day hast worn on to eventide; please, spend the night, the day hast drawn to a close. Spend the night here and enjoy yourself. You can rise early tomorrow for your journey and go to your home."
Jehovah maketh poor and maketh rich, he humbleth and he exalteth.
And he said to him, If now I have found favor in thine eyes, show me a sign that it is thou who speakest with me.
For this reason let us go on from the first things about Christ to full growth; not building again that on which it is based, that is, the turning of the heart from dead works, and faith in God,
Now Jephthah was judge of Israel for six years. And Jephthah the Gileadite came to his death, and his body was put to rest in his village, Mizpeh of Gilead.
and he himself hath turned back from the graven images which at Gilgal, and saith, `A secret word I have unto thee, O king;' and he saith, `Hush!' and go out from him do all those standing by him.
calling the name of the city Dan after the name of their father, who was the son of Israel, which before was called Lais.
Then Saul defeated the Amalekite from Havilah as one goes to Shur which is east of Egypt.
And the children of Israel returned from chasing after the Philistines, and they despoiled their tents.
Now when the ark of the covenant of Yahweh arrived at the camp, all Israel let out a loud shout so that the earth shook.
By faith Abel offered to God a sacrifice exceeding that of Cain, by which he obtained a testimony that he was just, God giving testimony to his gifts; and by it he being dead yet speaketh.
And when the children of Israel saw this in the battle (for the children of Benjamin thought they fled and pursued them vigorously, killing thirty men of their army)
And an angel of Yahweh appeared to the woman, and he said to her, "Behold, you are infertile and have not borne children, but you will conceive and bear a son.
And having taken two men of Midian, Oreb and Zeb: Oreb they slew in the rock of Oreb and Zeb in the winepress of Zeb. And they pursued Midian, carrying the heads of Oreb and Zeb to Gedeon beyond the waters of the the Jordan.
For it is impossible that the blood of bulls and goats should take away sins.
And the woman saith, `Whom do I bring up to thee?' and he saith, `Samuel -- bring up to me.'
And he said to them, "Micah did such and such for me and hired me, and I became his priest."
And the people came to Beth-el, waiting there till evening before God, and gave themselves up to bitter weeping,
Then David and his men, who were about six hundred, arose and departed out of Keilah, and went wherever they could go. Saul was told that David was escaped from Keilah; and he gave up going there.
and David riseth and goeth, he and his men, and smiteth among the Philistines two hundred men, and David bringeth in their foreskins, and they set them before the king, to be son-in-law to the king; and Saul giveth to him Michal his daughter for a wife.
So he took a yoke of oxen and cut them into pieces and sent them throughout all the territory of Israel by the hand of the messengers, saying, "Whoever is not going out after Saul and after Samuel, so will it be done to his oxen." Then the fear of Yahweh fell on the people and they went out as one man.
And the princes of the Philistines brought unto her seven cords, such is he spoke of, with which she bound him;
Wherefore Saul returned, leaving the pursuit of David, and went to meet the Philistines. For this cause they called that place, the Rock of division.
And having this confidence I know that I shall abide and continue with you all for your furtherance and joy of faith;
Then Saul hurled the spear and thought, "I will pin David to the wall." But David eluded him twice.
There was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the Danites, whose name was Manoah; and his wife was barren, and childless.
Therefore Saul removed him from him, and made him his captain over a thousand; and he went out and came in before the people.
God having provided some better thing concerning us, so that apart from us they should not be made perfect?
Then Samuel said, "Bring Agag the king of the Amalekite here to me!" Agag came to him cheerfully. Agag said, "Surely the bitterness of death is past."
See, I will put the wool of a sheep on the grain-floor; if there is dew on the wool only, while all the earth is dry, then I will be certain that it is your purpose to give Israel salvation by my hand as you have said.
For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins.
And it cometh to pass, after the death of Joshua, that the sons of Israel ask at Jehovah, saying, `Who doth go up for us unto the Canaanite, at the commencement, to fight against it?'
Now Eli was ninety-eight years old; and his eyes were set, that he could not see.
By faith he that is called Abraham, obeyed to go out into a place which he was to receive for an inheritance; and he went out, not knowing whither he went.
And Jehovah called again, Samuel! And Samuel arose and went to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou calledst me. And he said, I did not call, my son: lie down again.
Gaal the son of Ebed said, "Who is Abimelech, and who is Shechem, that we should serve him? Isn't he the son of Jerubbaal? Isn't Zebul his officer? Serve the men of Hamor the father of Shechem, but why should we serve him?
Would that that some man would put this people under my hand, that I might remove Abimelech out of the way. And it was said to Abimelech: Gather together the multitude of an army, and come.
When Samuel saw Saul, Yahweh said to him, "Behold, the man of whom I spoke to you! He will have authority over my people."
Talk no more so exceeding proudly; let not arrogancy come out of your mouth: for Jehovah is a God of knowledge, and by him actions are weighed.
And his mother made him a little robe and took it to him every year when she came with her husband for the year's thereof.
but did empty himself, the form of a servant having taken, in the likeness of men having been made,
And the old man said, Peace be with you; let all your needs be my care; only do not take your rest in the street.
Wherefore it behoved him in all things to be made like unto his brethren, that he might become a merciful and faithful priest before God, that he might be a propitiation for the sins of the people.
But encourage one another day by day, as long as it is called "today," so that none of you become hardened by the deception of sin.
And Manoah arose, and went after his wife, and came to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that spakest unto the woman? And he said, I am.
And an artificer is not found in all the land of Israel, for the Philistines said, `Lest the Hebrews make sword or spear;'
Then the woman hasted and ran, and informed her husband, and said to him, Behold, the man hast appeared to me, that came to me that day.
And the sin of the young men was very great before Jehovah, for men despised the oblation of Jehovah.
And the armed force of the Philistines went out to the narrow way of Michmash.
Then David answered and said to Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, brother of Joab, saying, "Who will go down with me to Saul to the camp?" Abishai said, "I will go down with you."
So the law which went before is put on one side, because it was feeble and without profit.
If therefore you have dealt well, and without fault with Jerobaal, and his house, rejoice ye this day in Abimelech, and may he rejoice in you.
Now therefore please beware and drink no wine nor strong drink, and don't eat any unclean thing;
Now he restored the silver to his mother; and his mother took two hundred silver-pieces and gave them to the founder, and he made of them a graven image and a molten image; and they were in the house of Micah.
For you have not yet resisted unto blood, striving against sin:
However, all of Israel and Judah were loving David, for he was going forth and marching ahead of them.
So Saul said to his servant, "Look, we may go, but what should we bring to the man? For the bread is gone from our bags and there is no present to bring to the man of God. What do we have with us?"
His concubine played the prostitute against him, and went away from him to her father's house to Beth-lehem Judah, and was there for four months.
Now David was the son of that Ephrathite of Bethlehemjudah, whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons: and the man went among men for an old man in the days of Saul.
for the whole seek their own things, not the things of the Christ Jesus,
And he smote among the men of Beth-shemesh, because they had looked into the ark of Jehovah, and smote of the people seventy men; and the people lamented, because Jehovah had smitten the people with a great slaughter.
And pitching their tents among them, wasted all things as they were in the blade even to the entrance of Gaza: and they left nothing at all in Israel for sustenance of life, nor sheep, nor oxen, nor asses.
For we enter into the rest who have believed; as he said, As I have sworn in my wrath, If they shall enter into my rest; although the works had been completed from foundation of world.
And David cometh -- and Abishai -- unto the people by night, and lo, Saul is lying sleeping in the path, and his spear struck into the earth at his pillow, and abner and the people are lying round about him.
And she said to her father: Give me only this which I desire: Let me go, that I may go about the mountains for two months, and may bewail my virginity with my companions.
and Judah goeth unto the Canaanite who is dwelling in Hebron (and the name of Hebron formerly Kirjath-Arba), and they smite Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai.
And when the messengers were come in, they found an image upon the bed, and a goat's skin at itself head.
And it hath been at his turning his shoulder to go from Samuel, that God turneth to him another heart, and all these signs come on that day,
She wept before him the seven days, while their feast lasted; and on the seventh day, he told her, because she pressed him severely; and she told the riddle to the children of her people.
And Elkanah her husband said to her, Do what is good in thy sight: abide until thou hast weaned him; only, may even Jehovah, fulfil his word. And the woman sitting down, and gave her son suck until she weaned him.
Now in those days the Philistines gathered their forces for war to fight against Israel. So Achish said to David, "Certainly you realize that you must go out with me in the army, you and your men."
And he ran to Heli and said: Here am I: for thou didst call me. He said: I did not call: go back and sleep. And he went and slept.
And the children of Israel said to Jehovah, We are sinners; do to us whatever seems good to you: only give us salvation this day.
Who grew daily stronger, but with a mighty hand overpowered Jabin king of Canaan, till they quite destroyed him.
After whom hast the king of Israel come out? for whom are you searching? for a dead dog, an insect.
And David said, By the living Lord, Jehovah will send destruction on him; the natural day of his death will come, or he will go into the fight and come to his end.
And here indeed, men that die, receive thithes: but there he hath witness, that he liveth.
And Saul said: Bring hither all the corners of the people: and know, and see through whom this sin hath happened to-day.
Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory; but in lowliness of mind let each esteem other better than themselves.
so that my bonds have become manifest [as being] in Christ in all the praetorium and to all others;
So now go back, and go in peace, so that you do not make the lords of the Philistines angry.
And they declare to Saul, and he sendeth other messengers, and they prophesy -- they also; and Saul addeth and sendeth messengers a third time, and they prophesy -- they also.
Awake! awake! Deborah: awake! awake! give a song: Up! Barak, and take prisoner those who took you prisoner, O son of Abinoam.
She put her left hand to the nail, and her right hand to the workman's hammer, and she struck Sisara, seeking in his head a place for wound, and strongly swift through his temples.
Behold, the days come, that I will cut off thy arm, and the arm of thy father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thy house.
And Moses verily was faithful in all his house, as a servant, for a testimony of those things which were to be spoken after:
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, We have sinned against thee, both because we have forsaken our God, and also served the Baalim.
May Yahweh be the judge, and let him judge between me and you and may he see and plead my case. May he vindicate me against you!"
And the servants of David came to Abigail to Carmel, and spoke to her, saying, David hast sent us to thee, to take thee as his wife.
When ye go, ye shall come unto a people secure, and to a large land; for God hath given it into your hands; a place where there is no want of anything that is in the earth.
Then Gideon took ten of his servants and did as Jehovah had said to him; but fearing to do it by day, because of his father's people and the men of the village, he did it by night.
Then going away from the prophets, he came to the house.
and a small upper coat doth his mother make to him, and she hath brought it up to him from time to time, in her coming up with her husband to sacrifice the sacrifice of time.
Then Gideon, the son of Joash, went back from the fight:
who shall transform the body of our humiliation to itself becoming conformed to the body of his glory, according to the working of his power, even to subject to himself the all things.
Then answered Doeg the Edomite, which was set over the servants of Saul, and said, I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.
And Saul sendeth messengers unto Jesse, and saith, `Send unto me David thy son, who with the flock.'
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; for he had nine hundred chariots of iron; and twenty years he powerfully oppressed the children of Israel.
Saul came to the city of Amalek, and set an ambush in the valley.
without father, without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but made like the Son of God), remains a priest continually.
And all the men of Israel who had hid themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim heard that the Philistines fled, and they also followed hard after them in the battle.
For if that first agreement had been as good as possible, there would have been no place for a second.
They surrounded the Benjamites, chased them, and trod them down at their resting-place, as far as near Gibeah toward the sunrise.
For he did not subject to angels the world to come, about which we are speaking.
And Deborah said unto Barak, Up; for this is the day in which Jehovah hath delivered Sisera into thy hand: is not Jehovah gone out before thee? So Barak went down from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
The children of Benjamin were numbered on that day out of the cities twenty-six thousand men who drew the sword, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, who were numbered seven hundred chosen men.
and watch and look; when the daughters of Shiloh dance in the dances, come out from the vineyards and seize for yourselves a wife from the daughters of Shiloh, and go to the land of Benjamin.
And when they were by Jebus, the day was far spent; and the servant said unto his master, Come, I pray thee, and let us turn in into this city of the Jebusite, and lodge in it.
For whom Jehovah loves, he chastens, and a scourge every son whom he receives."
who hast been made, not after the law of a fleshly commandment, but after the power of an endless life:
And it came to pass, when all that knew him beforetime saw that, behold, he prophesied among the prophets, then the people said one to another, What is this that is come unto the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?
And sent messengers privately before Abimelech, speaking: Behold Gaal the son of Obed is come into Sichem with his brethren, and endeavoureth to set the city against thee.
And David is the youngest, and the three eldest have gone after Saul,
And the men of Israel said, Have ye seen this man that is come up? surely to defy Israel is he come up; and it shall be, that the man who killeth him, the king will enrich him with great riches, and will give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel.
They said to him, "No, we will only bind you and give you into their hand; we will certainly not kill you." So they bound him with two new ropes, and they brought him up from the rock.
and messengers he hath sent into all Manasseh, and it also is called after him; and messengers he hath sent into Asher, and into Zebulun, and into Naphtali, and they come up to meet them.
Woe to us! Who can deliver us from the hand of these mighty gods? These are the same gods who struck the Egyptians in full plagues in the desert.
But there came a messenger to Saul, saying, Haste thee and come; for the Philistines have made a raid against the land.
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Give us seven days' respite, that we may send messengers unto all the borders of Israel: and then, if there be no man to save us, we will come out to thee.
and my God shall supply all your need, according to His riches in glory in Christ Jesus,
And the men of the city said to Joash, Bring out thy son, that he may die, because he hast broken down the altar of Baal, and because he hast cut down the Asherah that was by it.
In those days there was no king in Israel: and in those days the tribe of the Danites sought them an inheritance to dwell in; for unto that day all their inheritance had not fallen unto them among the tribes of Israel.
They near Jebus, and the day hath gone greatly down, and the young man saith unto his lord, `Come, I pray thee, and we turn aside unto this city of the Jebusite, and lodge in it.'
And the two months being finished, she returned to her father, and he did to her as he had voweth, and she knew no man. From thence came a fashion in Israel, and a custom hast been kept:
And see, and ascertain all the lurking-places where he hides himself, and come ye again to me with sure information, that I may go with you; and it shall come to pass, if he be in the land, that I will search him out throughout the thousands of Judah.
Then said Micah, Now I know that Jehovah will do me good, because I have the Levite for priest.
And the border of the Amorrhite was from the ascent of the scorpion, the rock, and the higher places.
Then said he, Lo, I come to do thy will, O God. He taketh away the first, that he may establish in the second coupling.
When thou goest from me to-day, thou shalt meet two men by Rachel's sepulchre in the border of Benjamin at Zelzah; and they will say to thee, The asses are found which thou wentest to seek, and behold, thy father hast dismissed the matter of the asses, and is anxious about you, saying, What shall I do for my son?
And Jehovah said to Gedeon: The people are still too many, bring them to the waters, and there I will try them; and of whom I shall say to thee, This shall go with thee, let him go: whom I shall forbid to go, let him return.
And Saul asketh of God, `Do I go down after the Philistines? dost Thou give them into the hand of Israel?' and He hath not answered him on that day.
For to which of the angels said he ever, *Thou* art my Son; this day have *I* begotten thee? and again, *I* will be to him for father, and *he* shall be to me for son?
but to what we have come -- by the same rule walk, the same thing think;
David said to Abiathar the priest, the son of Ahimelech, "Please bring the ephod here to me." Abiathar brought the ephod to David.
And the men of the city said to him on the seventh day before the sun went down, What is sweeter than honey, And what stronger than a lioness, And he said unto them, If ye had not ploughed with my heifer; Ye had not found out my riddle.
Then Saul went down flat on the earth, and was full of fear because of Samuel's words: and there was no strength in him, for he had taken no food all that day or all that night.
And they put away the foreign gods from among them, and served Jehovah: and his soul was grieved for the misery of Israel.
For he of whom these things are said comes of another tribe, of which no man hast ever made offerings at the altar.
And may you, while I am still living, O may you be kind to me, as Jehovah is kind, and keep me from death!
Saul said, "God do so and more also; for you shall surely die, Jonathan."
But give comfort to one another every day as long as it is still Today; so that no one among you may be made hard by the deceit of sin:
And it shall be, when their fathers or their brethren come unto us to complain, that we will say unto them, Be favorable unto them for our sakes; because we reserved not to each man his wife in the war: for ye did not give unto them at this time, that ye should be guilty.
And about the time of her death the women that stood by her said unto her, Fear not; for thou hast born a son. But she answered not, neither did she regard it.
And the battle is hard against Saul, and the archers find him -- men with bow -- and he is pained greatly by the archers;
And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together at Mizpah, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. When the children of Israel heard it, they were afraid of the Philistines.
Abide with me, fear not; for he that seeks my life seeks thy life; for with me thou art in safe keeping.
Did I then begin to inquire of God for him? be it far from me; let not the king impute anything unto his servant, nor to all the house of my father: for thy servant knew nothing of all this, less or more.
And Nob, the city of the priests, smote he with the edge of the sword, both men and women, children and sucklings, and oxen, and asses, and sheep, with the edge of the sword.
They took their bones and buried them under the tamarisk tree in Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
Behold, this day thine eyes have seen how that Jehovah had delivered thee to day into my hand in the cave: and some bade me kill thee: but mine eye spared thee; and I said, I will not put forth my hand against my lord; for he is the Lord's anointed.
And Samuel said unto the cook, Bring the portion which I gave thee, of which I said unto thee, Set it by thee.
Then Jehovah said to Gideon, There are still more people than is necessary; take them down to the water so that I may put them to the test for you there; then whoever I say is to go with you will go, and whoever I say is not to go will not go.
And the angel of Jehovah came to the woman, and said to her, See now! though you have never given birth to children, you will be with child and give birth to a son.
Jonathan spoke good of David to Saul his father, and said to him, "Don't let the king sin against his servant, against David; because he hast not sinned against you, and because his works have been very good toward you;
And this shall be the sign unto thee, that shall come upon thy two sons, on Hophni and Phinehas: in one day they shall die both of them.
And Samuel lay until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah. And Samuel feared to show Eli the vision.
Then Jephthah fled from his brothers, and lived in the land of Tob. Outlaws joined up with Jephthah, and they went out with him.
And he had forty sons and thirty grandsons, who rode on seventy ass colts. And he judged Israel eight years.
And the princes of the Philistines assembled together, to offer great sacrifices to Dagon their god, and to make merry; speaking: Our god hath delivered our enemy Samson into our hands.
So Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel. And the land had rest eighty years.
But after Gedeon died, and the children of Israel turned again, and committed fornication with the Baalim. And they made a covenant with Baal, that he should be their god;
And he knew not at all what was doing: for only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
for the daughters of Israel to go and lament the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite for forty days of the year.
So from that day and beyond, he made it a rule and a regulation for Israel until this day.
Then Jerobaal, who is the same as Gedeon, rising up early and all the people with him, came to the fountain that is called Harad. Now the camp of Madian was in the valley on the north side of the high hill.
So that I was angry with this generation, and I said, Their hearts are in error at all times, and they have no knowledge of my ways;
And this word, Yet once more, signifieth the wandering of those things that are shaken, as of things that are made, that those things which cannot be shaken may remain.
Jonathan called David, and Jonathan showed him all those things. Then Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was in his presence, as beforetime.
And Samuel taketh Saul, and his young man, and bringeth them in to the chamber, and giveth to them a place at the head of those invited, and about thirty men.
And the Philistines assembled to fight with Israel, thirty thousand chariots and six thousand horsemen and an army as numerous as sand which is on the seashore. And they came up and encamped in Micmash, east of Beth Aven.
Jonathan struck the garrison of the Philistines that was in Geba: and the Philistines heard of it. Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, "Let the Hebrews hear!"
[it is told] to the Gazites, saying, `Samson hath come in hither;' and they go round and lay wait for him all the night at the gate of the city, and keep themselves silent all the night, saying, `Till the light of the morning -- then we have slain him.'
But the men were very good to us, and we were not harmed, and we didn't miss anything, as long as we went with them, when we were in the field.
David said to Abigail, "Blessed is Yahweh, the God of Israel, who sent you to-day to meet me!
Samson said, "With the jawbone of a donkey, heaps on heaps; with the jawbone of a donkey I have struck a thousand men."
And Jael wife of Heber taketh the pin of the tent, and taketh the hammer in her hand, and goeth unto him gently, and striketh the pin into his temples, and it fasteneth in the earth -- and he hath been fast sleeping, and is weary -- and he dieth.
Now the day after, the people went out into the field; and news of it came to Abimelech.
And he said to Jether, his first-born, "Get up, kill them." But the boy did not draw his sword, for he was afraid because he was still a boy.
And the Amorrhite straitened the children of Dan in the mountain, and gave them not place to go down to the plain:
And the woman came at the dawning of the day, and fell down at the entrance of the man's house where her lord was, till it was light.
Jonathan got up from the table enraged, and did not eat on the second day of the new moon because he was upset about David, because his father had disgraced him.
And the woman came to Saul (for he was very much troubled) and said to him: Behold, thy handmaid hath obeyed thy voice, and I have put my life in my hand; and I hearkened unto the words which thou spokest to me.
And Gaal addeth yet to speak, and saith, `Lo, people are coming down from the high part of the land, and another detachment is coming by the way of the oak of Meonenim.'
And they shall not teach every man his neighbor and every man his brother, saying, Know Jehovah; for all shall know me from the least to the greatest of them:
for every command having been spoken, according to law, by Moses, to all the people, having taken the blood of the calves and goats, with water, and scarlet wool and hyssop, he both the book itself and all the people did sprinkle,
For indeed, although you ought to be teachers by this time, you have need of someone to teach you again the beginning rudiments of the oracles of God, and you have need of milk, not solid food.
And Abigail seeth David, and hasteth and cometh down from off the ass, and falleth before David on her face, and is bowed herself to the earth,
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
And she made an oath, and said, O Jehovah of hosts; if you will truly take note of the sorrow of your servant, not turning away from me but keeping me in mind, and will give me a man-child, then I will give him to Jehovah all the days of his life and his hair will never be cut.
And when Saul saw David go forth against the Philistine, he said to Abner, the captain of the host, Abner, whose son is this young man? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I cannot tell.
Make my joy complete by being of the same mind, having the same love, being in harmony and of one mind,
Be free from the love of money and pleased with the things which you have; for he himself hast said, I will be with you at all times.
(At that time also when they were in Silo, no one of them was found there.)
I said to you, "I am Yahweh your God. You shall not fear the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you dwell." But you have not listened to my voice.'"
Then the Philistines went up, and encamped in Judah, and spread themselves in Lehi.
So David's young men turned their way, and went again, and came and told him all those sayings.
And the woman came as the morning appeared, and she fell at the entrance of the man's house where her master was, until daylight.
Here I am; testify against me before Jehovah, and before his anointed. Whose ox have I taken? or whose ass have I taken? or whom have I defrauded? whom have I injured? or of whose hand have I received any ransom and blinded mine eyes therewith? and I will restore it to you.
Samuel said to all the people, "Do you see him whom Yahweh hast chosen, that there is no one like him among all the people?" All the people shouted, and said, "Long live the king!"
And answer doth Doeg the Edomite, who is set over the servants of Saul, and saith, `I have seen the son of Jesse coming in to Nob, unto Ahimelech son of Ahitub,
On the next day, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, they found Saul and his three sons fallen on Mount Gilboa.
And Gideon sent messengers throughout all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, "Come down to oppose Midian, and capture from them the waters up to Beth Barah and the Jordan." He called out all the men of Ephraim, and they captured the waters up to Beth Barah and the the Jordan.
And Samuel answered Saul and said, I am the seer: go up before me to the high place, and ye shall eat with me to-day; and to-morrow I will let thee go, and will tell thee all that is in thy heart.
So Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the midst of his brothers. Then the Spirit of Yahweh rushed upon David from that day on. Then Samuel got up and went to Ramah.
and Abimelech hath fought against the city all that day, and captureth the city, and the people who in it he hath slain, and he breaketh down the city, and soweth it salt.
And the power of the children of Israel went on increasing against Jabin, king of Canaan, till he was cut off.
For he hast been counted worthy of more glory than Moses, because he who built the house hast more honor than the house.
yea, I ask thee also, true yokefellow, assist them, who have contended along with me in the glad tidings, with Clement also, and my other fellow-labourers, whose names in book of life.
Which hope we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and stedfast, and which entereth into that within the veil;
So Moab was broken that day under the hand of Israel. And for eighty years the land had peace.
And Samson went down to Timna, and he saw a woman in Timnah from the daughters of the Philistines.
And Abigail came to Nabal: and, behold, he had a feast in his house, like the feast of a king, and Nabal's heart was joyful: for he was very drunk: and she told him nothing less or more until morning.
Then you are to go on from there, and when you come to the oak-tree of Tabor, you will see three men ascent to God to Beth-el, one having with him three young goats and another three cakes of bread and another a skin full of wine:
This the covenant which I will establish towards them after those days, saith Lord: giving my laws into their hearts, I will write them also in their understandings;
and Phinehas son of Eleazar, son of Aaron, is standing before it in those days -- saying, `Do I add again to go out to battle with the sons of Benjamin, my brother, or do I cease?' And Jehovah saith, `Go up, for to-morrow I give him into thy hand.'
And Saul commanded his servants to speak to David privately, speaking: Behold thou pleasest the king, and all his servants love thee. Now therefore be the king's son in law.
Who through faith overcame kingdoms, did righteousness, got their reward, kept the mouths of lions shut,
But Yahweh's Spirit came on Gideon, and he blew the trumpet; and Abiezer was gathered together to follow him.
Wherein God, willing more abundantly to show unto the heirs of promise the immutability of his counsel, confirmed it by an oath:
They fought from heaven; the stars in their courses fought against Sisera.
Moreover see and know, O my father, the skirts of thy robe in my hand, that when I cut, off the skirts of thy robe, I would not put out my hand against thee. Reflect, and see, that there is no evil in my hand, nor iniquity, neither have I sinned against thee; but thou liest in wait for my life, to take it away.
Then said Saul to the people that were with him, Muster now, and see who is gone from us. And they mustered, and behold, Jonathan and his armour-bearer were not there.
Put out the power of fire, got securely away from the edge of the sword, were made strong when they had been feeble, became full of power in war, and put to flight the armies of the nations.
And Saul saith, `Cast between me and Jonathan my son;' and Jonathan is captured.
From the day that the ark stayed in Kiriath Jearim, the time was long; for it was twenty years; and all the house of Israel lamented after Yahweh.
The Philistine said to David, "Come to me so that I can give your flesh to the birds of heaven and to the wild animals of the field!"
And they were to prove Israel by them, to know whether they would obey the commandments of Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers by Moses.
Who serve unto the example and shadow of heavenly things, as Moses was admonished of God when he was about to make the tabernacle: for, See, saith he, that thou make all things according to the pattern showed to thee in the mount.
The one rock went up on the north in before Michmash and the other on the south in before Geba.
And Achish answered and said unto David, `I know that thou good in mine eyes as a messenger of God; only, the princes of the Philistines have said, He doth not go up with us into battle;
But not a man put his hand to his mouth for fear of the curse.
And Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, Did not ye hate me, and thrust me out of my father's house? and why are ye come to me now when ye are in trouble?
We shall come to a people that is secure, into a spacious country, and Jehovah will deliver the place to us, in which there is no want of anything that groweth on the earth.
And the Philistine saith unto David, `Am I a dog that thou art coming unto me with staves?' and the Philistine revileth David by his gods,
And between the passages, by which Jonathan sought to go over unto the Philistines' garrison, there was a sharp rock on the one side, and a sharp rock on the other side: and the name of the one was Bozez, and the name of the other Seneh.
for it is God who works in you both the willing and the working according to good pleasure.
And that night God did so; for the wool was dry, and there was dew on all the earth round it.
Till now you have not given your blood in your fight against sin:
and Israel sendeth messengers unto the king of Edom, saying, Let me pass over, I pray thee, through thy land, and the king of Edom hearkened not; and also unto the king of Moab hath sent, and he hath not been willing; and Israel abideth in Kadesh,
And to leave the matter of the murder of the seventy sons of Jerobaal, and the shedding of their blood upon Abimelech their brother, and upon the rest of the princes of the Sichemites, who aided him.
And it was told Saul that David was come to Ceila: and Saul said: Jehovah hath delivered him into my hands, and he is shut up, being come into a city, that hath gates and bars.
And ere the lamp of God went out in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was, and Samuel was laid down to sleep;
And he put his hand into his wallet, and took a stone, and cast it with the sling, and fetching it about struck the Philistine in the forehead: and the stone was fixed in his forehead, and he fell on his face upon the earth.
Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us,
But if you are afraid, go down to the camp with Purah your servant,
Even as it is meet for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart; inasmuch as both in my bonds, and in the defence and confirmation of the gospel, ye all are partakers of my grace.
and I have drawn unto thee, unto the brook Kishon, Sisera, head of the host of Jabin, and his chariot, and his multitude, and have given him into thy hand.'
What will come on us, if we do not give our minds to such a great salvation? a salvation of which our fathers first had knowledge through the words of Jehovah, and which was made certain to us by those to whom his words came;
Because it is like the sin of sorcery, to rebel; and like the matter of idolatry, to refuse to hearken. Forasmuch therefore as thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, Jehovah hath also rejected thee from being king.
May God do so and so, and add unto the foes of David, if I leave of all that belong to him till the morning, any that pisseth against the wall.
And the peace of God, which surpasseth all understanding, keep your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus.
She said to her father, "Let this thing be done for me. Leave me alone two months, that I may depart and go down on the mountains, and bewail my virginity; I and my companions."
But Hannah did not go up, for she said to her husband, "Once the boy is weaned, I will bring him, so that he may appear before Yahweh; and he will remain there forever."
doing nothing through rivalry or through conceit, but in humility, each laying others better than himself;
For I will be merciful toward their wrongdoings, and I will not remember their sins any longer."
It repenteth me that I have set up Saul to be king; for he is turned away from following me, and hath not fulfilled my words. And Samuel was much grieved; and he cried to even Jehovah, all night.
But my God shall supply all your need according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
so I swore in my wrath, If they shall enter into my rest.
according to my eager expectation and hope, that I will be put to shame in nothing, but with all boldness, even now as always Christ will be exalted in my body, whether through life or through death.
But Anna went not up; for she said to her husband: I will not go till the child be weaned, and till I may carry him, that he may appear before Jehovah, and may abide always there.
And he put to the sword Nob, the city of the priests, from man to woman, From child to infant, and ox and donkey and sheep; all to the sword.
Then said David, Ye shall not do so, my brethren, with that which even Jehovah, hast given us, who hast preserved us, and given the troop that came against us into our hand.
Then Gaal, the son of Ebed, came with his brothers, and went over to Shechem; and the men of Shechem put their faith in him.
and the Asherite dwelleth in the midst of the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land, for it hath not dispossessed them.
You will look at the distress of my dwelling-place, soul all the good caused for Israel, but there will never be an old man in your household forever!
And David said, "Yahweh, who rescued me from the hand of the lion and from the hand of the bear, will save me from the hand of this Philistine!" Then Saul said to David, "Go and may Yahweh be with you!"
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the townsmen of Shechem; and the townsmen of Shechem were false to Abimelech;
And Jehovah delivered him with all his army into the hands of Israel, and he slew him, and possessed all the land of the Amorrhite the inhabitant of that country,
And Samuel was judge of Israel all the days of his life.
Samuel said, "Then what does this bleating of the sheep in my ears, and the lowing of the cattle which I hear mean?"
So now, O king, have your soul's desire and come down, and we, for our part, will give him up into the king's hands.
and Saul hath pity -- also the people -- on Agag, And on the best of the flock, and of the herd and of the seconds, and on the lambs, and on all that good, and have not been desiring to devote them; and all the work, despised and wasted -- it they devoted.
When these signs come to you, do for yourself what your hand finds to do, for God will be with you.
Whosoever shall first come forth out of the doors of my house, and shall meet me when I return in peace from the children of Ammon, the same will I offer a holocaust to Jehovah.
And the heads of the Philistines say, `What these Hebrews?' and Achish saith unto the heads of the Philistines, `Is not this David servant of Saul king of Israel, who hath been with me these days or these years, and I have not found in him anything from the day of his falling away till this day.'
And do not go from the right way turning to those false gods in which there is no profit and no salvation, for they are false.
I winepress towards the Consider, to the prize of the supernal calling of God in Christ Jesus.
So Jephthah went with the responsible men of Gilead, and the people made him head and chief over them; and Jephthah said all these things before Jehovah in Mizpah.
By faith he kept the Passover and the sprinkling of blood, in order that the one who destroyed the first-born would not touch them.
And the handle also went in after the shoulder-blade, And the fat closed over the blade because he did not draw back the sword from his stomach; and it went protruding out the back.
And he said, Wherefore doth my lord thus pursue after his servant? for what have I done? or what evil is in my hand?
And David and his men went up, and invaded the Geshurites, and the Gezrites, and the Amalekites: for those nations were of old the inhabitants of the land, as thou goest to Shur even unto the land of Egypt.
"The trees went certainly, to anoint a king over themselves. And they said to the olive-tree, 'Rule over us.'
And the destroyer goeth out from the camp of the Philistines -- three detachments; the one detachment turneth unto the way of Ophrah, unto the land of Shual;
Then the men of Israel said to Gideon, "Rule over us, both you, and your son, and your son's son also; for you have saved us out of the hand of Midian."
And he said, What is the thing that Jehovah hath said unto thee? I pray thee hide it not from me: God do so to thee, and more also, if thou hide anything from me of all the things that he said unto thee.
And the staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam; and his spear's head weighed six hundred shekels of iron: and one bearing a shield went before him.
Then the responsible men of the meeting said, What are we to do about wives for the rest of them, seeing that the women of Benjamin are dead?
It is a terrifying thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
And I will send a boy, saying to him: Go and fetch me the arrows.
And David said to his men, Put on your swords, every one of you. And every man put on his sword; and David did the same; and about four hundred men went up with David, and two hundred kept watch over their goods.
Now she had liers-in-wait abiding in the chamber. and she said to him, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson! And he broke the cords, as a thread of tow is broken when it touches the fire; and his strength was not known.
So then, hand over the men, the perverse lot, who are in Gibeah, so that we may kill them and purge this wickedness from Israel." But the descendants of Benjamin were not willing to listen to the voice of their relatives, the Israelites.
But the children of Belial said: Shall this man be able to save us? And they despised him, and brought him no presents, but he dissembled as though he heard not.
And they went down from the high place into the village, and he spoke with Saul upon the top of the house; and he prepared a bed for Saul on the top of the house, and he slept.
So the people sent to Silo, and they brought from thence the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts sitting upon the cherubim: and the two sons of Heli, Ophni and Phinees, were with the ark of the covenant of God.
These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them and embraced them from afar, and having confessed that they were sojourners and pilgrims on the earth.
Samuel said to the cook, "Bring the portion which I gave you, of which I said to you, 'Set it aside.'"
They went out into the field and harvested their vineyards and trod them, and they held a festival. And they went into the temple of their god, and they ate and drank and cursed Abimelech.
Naphtali didn't drive out the inhabitants of Beth Shemesh, nor the inhabitants of Beth Anath; but he lived among the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land. Nevertheless the inhabitants of Beth Shemesh and of Beth Anath became subject to forced labor.
And they took their daughters to be their wives, and gave their daughters to their sons, and served their gods.
Then the horse hoofs stamped because of the prancing, the prancing of their strong ones.
If your father misses me at all, then you must say, 'David earnestly asked from me to run to Beth-lehem his city, for the yearly sacrifice is there for all the clan.'
When the people had come to the forest, behold, honey was dripping, but no one put his hand to his mouth; for the people feared oath.
A lack of madmen I, that ye have brought in this one to act as a madman by me! doth this one come in unto my house?'
But the boy had no idea what was going on; only Jonathan and David had knowledge of it.
and may be found in him, not having my righteousness which is from the law, but which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness from God on the basis of faith,
Go and cry out to the gods whom you have chosen; let them deliver you in the time of your trouble."
So then take your stand, so that I may judge you before Yahweh with regard to all the works of righteousness of Yahweh that he performed with both you and your ancestors.
And she said to her father, Let this thing be done for me: leave me alone two months, that I may go and descend to the mountains, and bewail my virginity; I and my companions.
And being consummated, he became, to all that obey him, the cause of eternal salvation.
But I am in a dilemma between the two, having the desire to depart and be with Christ, which is far glad.
For Jehovah will do to thee as he spoke by me, and he will rend thy kingdom out of thy hand, and will give it to thy neighbor David:
And they showed Sisera that Barak the son of Abinoam was gone up to mount Tabor.
For you are with child and will give birth to a son; his hair is never to be cut, for the child is to be separate to God from his birth; and he will take up the work of freeing Israel from the hands of the Philistines.
Saul was afraid of David, because Yahweh was with him, and had departed from Saul.
And when she had weaned him, she took him up with her, with three bullocks, and one ephah of flour, and a bottle of wine, and brought him unto the house of Jehovah in Shiloh: and the child was young.
For he was yet in the loins of his father when Melchisedec met him.
In those days there is no king in Israel; each doth that which is right in his own eyes;
And Joshua sent the people away, and Israel went each to their own inheritance to take possession of the land.
where your fathers tested me by proof and saw my works
How much more if the people had well eaten to-day of the spoil of itself enemies which it hath found, for now, the smiting hath not been great among the Philistines.'
And David was greatly distressed; for the people spake of stoning him, because the soul of all the people was grieved, every man for his sons and for his daughters: but David encourageth himself in Jehovah his God.
Then his father and his mother said unto him, Is there never a woman among the daughters of thy brethren, or among all my people, that thou goest to take a wife of the uncircumcised Philistines? and Samson said unto his father, Get her for me; for she pleaseth me well.
And the men did so; they took two cows, yoking them to the cart and the shutting up their young ones in their living-place:
And it cometh to pass, because she distressed him with her words all the days, and doth press upon him, and his soul is grieved to death,
For rebellion is the sin of divination, And selfwill is iniquity and idolatry. Because thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, He hath also rejected thee from being king.
All the remainder of your household will come to bow down before him for a bit of silver or a loaf of bread and will say, "Please assign me to one of the priestly observances so that I can eat a morsel of bread."'"
But the man would not tarry the night; and he rose up and departed, and went opposite to Jebus, that is, Jerusalem; and there were with him two asses saddled, and his concubine was with him.
who in the days of his flesh both prayers and supplications unto Him who was able to save him from death -- with strong crying and tears -- having offered up, and having been heard in respect to that which he feared,
They were a wall to us both by night and by day, all the while we were with them keeping the sheep.
Also before they burnt the fat, the priest's servant came, and said to the man that sacrificed, Give flesh to roast for the priest; for he will not have boiled flesh of thee, but raw.
After him Abdon, the son of Illel, a Pharathonite, judged Israel:
And they arose, and went to Ziph before Saul: but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the plain on the south of Jeshimon.
And indeed many have become priests, because they were came upon by death from continuing in office,
Moreover the Hebrews that were with the Philistines before that time, that went up with them into the camp from the country round about, even they also turned to be with the Israelites that were with Saul and Jonathan.
And Adonibezec said: Seventy kings having their fingers and toes cut off, gathered up the leavings of the food under my table: as I have done, so hath God requited me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and he died there.
And the king sat upon his throne, as at the other times, even upon a seat by the wall: and Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul's side, and David's place was empty.
When he entered his house he took a knife, and he grasped his concubine and cut her into twelve pieces; and he sent her throughout the whole territory of Israel.
What you have done is not good. By the living Lord, death is the right fate for you, because you have not kept watch over your lord, the man on whom Jehovah hast put the holy oil. Now see, where is the king's spear, and the vessel of water which was by his head?
For they, their livestock, and their tents would come up like a great number of locusts; they and their camels could not be counted; they came into the land and devoured it.
And David answereth and saith unto Ahimelech the Hittite, and unto Abishai son of Zeruiah, brother of Joab, saying, `Who doth go down with me unto Saul, unto the camp?' and Abishai saith, `I -- I go down with thee.'
And Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel in the valley of Elah, fighting with the Philistines.
And the young men of David turn on their way, and turn back, and come in, and declare to him according to all these words.
For some who heard did provoke: but not all that came out of Egypt by Moses.
They defeated the Philistines that day from Micmash to Aijalon, and the troops were very weary.
and the name of the wife of Saul Ahinoam, daughter of Ahimaaz; and the name of the head of his host Abner son of Ner, uncle of Saul;
And he changed his behaviour before them, and feigned himself mad in their hands, and scratched on the doors of the gate, and let his spittle fall down on his beard.
According to all the works that they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt even unto this day, in that they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so do they also unto thee.
And Yahweh appeared again in Shiloh, for Yahweh revealed himself to Samuel in Shiloh through the word of Yahweh.
And he said, This is the sort of king who will be your ruler: he will take your sons and make them his servants, his horsemen, and drivers of his war-carriages, and they will go running before his war-carriages;
He will take your men-servants and your servant-girls, and the best of your oxen and your asses and put them to his work.
And Benjamin went out from Gibeah to meet them on the second day, and they struck down the Israelites again, eighteen thousand men to the ground; all of these were sword-wielding.
And his armorbearer said unto him, Do all that is in thy heart: turn thee; behold, I am with thee according to thy heart.
And he said to him, Fear not; for the hand of Saul my father will not find thee; and thou shalt be king over Israel, and I shall be next to thee; and that also Saul my father knows.
Paul and Timothy, slaves of Christ Jesus, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are in Philippi, together with the overseers and deacons.
And Ehud hath come unto him, and he is sitting in the upper chamber of the wall which he hath for himself, and Ehud saith, `A word of God I have unto thee;' and he riseth from off the throne;
His fellow answered, "This is nothing other than the sword of Gideon the son of Joash, a man of Israel. God hast delivered Midian into his hand, with all the army."
And a man from there responded and said, "And who is their father?" Therefore it became a proverb: "Is Saul also among the prophets?"
Now the Hebrews who were with the Philistines before, and who went up with them into the camp, from all around, even they also turned to be with the Israelites who were with Saul and Jonathan.
And again: I will put my trust in him. And again: Behold, I and my children, whom God hath given me.
For indeed our God is a devouring fire.
And when the men came in, there was the image in the bed, with the cushion of goat's hair at itself head
And Jonathan said to David, Go in peace, for we two have taken an oath, in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah will be between me and you and between my seed and your seed for ever. Then David went away, and Jonathan went into the town.
And he turneth round from him unto another, and saith according to this word, and the people return him word as the first word.
And the priest said: Lo, here is the sword of Goliath the Philistine whom thou slewest in the valley of Terebinth, wrapped up in a cloth behind the ephod; if thou wilt take this, take it, for here is no other but this. And David said: There is none like that, give it me.
And this hope is like a strong band for our souls, fixed and certain, and going in to that which is inside the veil;
For no where doth he take hold of the angels: but of the seed of Abraham he taketh stronghold.
While he was speaking to them, the champion, whose name was Goliath the Philistine from Gath, was coming up from the holes of the Philistines. He spoke just as he had previously, and David heard his words.
And Abiathar, one of the sons of Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub, got away and went in flight after David;
And the children of Israel put away the Baals and the Ashtoreths and served even Jehovah, only.
But Yahweh said to Samuel, "Don't look on his face, or on the height of his stature, because I have rejected him; for I don't see as man sees. For man looks at the outward appearance, but Yahweh looks at the heart."
and the wood of his spear like a beam of weavers', and the flame of his spear six hundred shekels of iron, and the bearer of the shield is going before him.
Manoah said to Yahweh's angel, "What is your name, that, when your words happen, we may honor you?"
And when she was come to her husband she said to him: A man of God came to me, having the countenance of an angel, very awful. And when I asked him who he was, and whence he came, and by what name he was called, he would not tell me.
as I swore in my wrath, 'They will not enter into my rest.'"
And when the men of Israel were dispersed in the battle, Benjamin began to smite and kill of the men of Israel about thirty persons: for they said, Surely they are smitten down before us, as in the first battle.
And his mother made him a little coat, and brought it to him from year to year; when she came up with her husband to sacrifice the yearly sacrifice.
And David and Jonathan made a covenant, for be loved him as his own soul.
Now the ark of Jehovah was in the country of the Philistines for seven months.
Now then stand, and see this great thing which Jehovah will do in your sight.
And it is true that by the law, those of the sons of Levi who have the position of priests may take a tenth part of the people's goods; that is to say, they take it from their brothers though these are the sons of Abraham.
And she said, May your servant have favor in your eyes. So the woman went away, and took part in the feast, and her face was no longer sad.
And the man went from the village of Beth-lehem in Judah to live as a foreigner wherever he could find a place. And he came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, to continue his journey.
When he was gone out, his servants came; and when they saw that, behold, the doors of the parlour were locked, they said, Surely he covereth his feet in his summer chamber.
And again, if the fathers of our flesh gave us punishment and had our respect, how much more will we be under the authority of the Father of spirits, and have life?
And his servants told David these words; and the thing was right in David's sight to be the king's son-in-law. And the days were not finished,
because my father hath fought for you, and doth cast off his life from , and deliver you from the hand of Midian:
being circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews; according to the law, a Pharisee:
And the Philistines put their forces in order against Israel, and the fighting was hard, and Israel was overcome by the Philistines, who put to the sword about four thousand of their army in the field.
But you this day have rejected your God, who only hath saved you out of all your evils and your tribulations: and you have said: Nay: but set a king over us. Now therefore stand before Jehovah by your tribes, and by your families.
Yahweh said to Gideon, "There are still too many people. Bring them down to the water, and I will test them for you there. It shall be, that those whom I tell you, 'This shall go with you,' the same shall go with you; and whoever I tell you, 'This shall not go with you,' the same shall not go."
Whosoever there is among all the tribes of Israel that came not up with the army of Jehovah? for they had bound themselves with a great oath, when they were in Maspha, that whosoever were wanting should be slain.
so that we also may be like all the nations, and our king may rule us and go out before us and fight our battles."
Let us therefore go out to him outside of the camp, bearing his reproach.
But he himself, turning back from the stone images at Gilgal, said, I have something to say to you in secret, O king. And he said, Let there be quiet. Then all those who were waiting before him went out.
saying, "I will declare your name to my brothers. Among of meeting I will sing your praise."
And they said to one another, Who hast done this thing? And after searching with care, they said, Gideon, the son of Joash, hast done this thing.
Now David was the son of that Ephrathite of Beth-lehem Judah before mentioned, whose name was Isai, who had eight sons, and was an old man in the days of Saul, and of great age among men.
Every high priest who is taken from among men is given his position to take care of the interests of men in those things which have to do with God, so that he may make offerings for sins.
of the teaching of baptisms, of laying on of hands, of rising again also of the dead, and of judgment age-during,
When the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, each one went to his home.
The inhabitants of the villages ceased, they ceased in Israel, until that I Deborah arose, that I arose a mother in Israel.
then they said to him, "Now say 'Shibboleth;'" and he said "Sibboleth"; for he couldn't manage to pronounce it right: then they seized him, and killed him at the fords of the Jordan. At that time, forty-two thousand of Ephraim fell.
and the sons of Israel have not remembered Jehovah their God, who is delivering them out of the hand of all their enemies round about,
For a will is in force concerning those who are dead, since it is never in force when the one who made the will is alive.
Brothers, be imitators together of me, and inscribe those who walk this way, even as you have us for an example.
Therefore sprang there even of one, and him as good as dead, so many as the stars of the heaven in multitude, and as the sand which is by the sea-shore innumerable.
But we are not of those who go back to destruction, but of those who have faith even to the salvation of soul.
And so it came to pass, that all that were slain of Benjamin in divers places, were five and twenty thousand fighting men, most valiant for war.
She made haste and ran to her husband: and told him speaking: Behold, the man hath appeared to me whom I saw beforehand.
But now thy kingdom shall not continue: even Jehovah, hast sought him a man after his own heart, and even Jehovah, hast appointed him over his people; for thou hast not kept what Jehovah commanded thee.
Now go and smite Amalek, and destroy utterly all that they have, and spare them not, but slay both man and woman, infant and suckling, ox and sheep, camel and ass.
And went round the land of Edom at the side, and the land of Moab: and came over against the east border of the land of Moab, and encamped on the other side of the of the Arnon: and he would not enter the bounds of Moab.
But the child Samuel advanced, and grew on, and pleased both the Lord and men.
When the man rose up to depart, he, and his concubine, and his servant, his father-in-law, the young lady's father, said to him, "Behold, now the day draws toward evening, please stay all night. Behold, the day is ending. Tarry here, that your heart may be merry; and tomorrow go on your way early, that you may go home."
And as he talked with them, behold, there came up the champion, the Philistine of Gath, Goliath by name, out of the armies of the Philistines, and spake according to the same words: and David heard them.
I know how to be humbled, and I know also how to abound; In everything and in all things I have learned the secret both to be filled and to be hungry, both to abound and to be in need.
And began to shout out after them. They looked back, and said to Michas: What aileth thee? Why dost thou cry?
And when the citizens of that place saw him, they brought him thirty companions to be with him.
And it was clear to all Israel from Dan to Beer-sheba that Samuel had been made a prophet of Jehovah.
and now, turn back, and go in peace, and thou dost do no evil in the sight of the princes of the Philistines.'
So Abimelech and all the army that was with him got up by night, and they lay ambush against Shechem in four divisions.
by faith, Joseph dying, concerning the outgoing of the sons of Israel did make mention, and concerning his bones did give command.
And David bought up and came to the place where Saul's tents were: and David had a spy out of the place where Saul was sleeping with Abner, the son of Ner, the captain of his army; and Saul was sleeping inside the ring of carts, and the tents of the people were all round him.
And Eli is a son of ninety and eight years, and his eyes have stood, and he hath not been able to see.
And Hannah riseth after eating in Shiloh, and after drinking, and Eli the priest is sitting on the throne by the side-post of the temple of Jehovah.
And David said: Jehovah who delivered me out of the paw of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said to David: Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
So David hid himself in the field. When the new moon came, the king was seated at the feast.
waiting from henceforth until his enemies be set [for the] footstool of his feet.
Then the lords of the Philistines gathered together to sacrifice a great sacrifice to Dagon their god, and to rejoice; for they said, Our god hast given Samson our enemy into our hands.
And the young man arose to set forward with his wife and servant. And his father-in-law spoke to him again: Consider that the day is declining, and draweth toward evening, tarry with me to-day also, and spend the day in mirth and to-morrow thou shalt depart, that thou mayest go into thy house.
And Dalila said to him: Behold, thou hast mocked me, and hast told me a false thing: but now at least tell me wherewith thou mayest be bound.
And it came to pass the same night, that Jehovah said unto him, Arise, get thee down unto the host; for I have delivered it into thy hand.
And Eli calleth Samuel, and saith, `Samuel, my son;' and he saith, `Here I.'
When Saul and all Israel heard the words of the Philistine, they were dismayed, and greatly afraid.
And the ark of God was taken; and Hophni and Phinehas, the sons of Eli, were put to the sword.
David said to Abner, "Aren't you a man? Who is like you in Israel? Why then have you not kept watch over your lord, the king? For one of the people came in to destroy the king your lord.
And David bought up early in the morning, and, giving the sheep into the care of a keeper, took the things and went as Jesse had said, and he came to the lines where the carts were, when the army was going out to fight giving their war-cry.
of anything which cometh out from the wine-vine she doth not eat, and wine and strong drink she doth not drink, and any unclean thing she doth not eat; all that I have commanded her she doth observe.'
Now it is my purpose to make clear to you, brothers, that the cause of the good news hast been helped by my experiences;
so also the Christ did not glorify himself to become chief priest, but He who spake unto him: `My Son thou art, I to-day have begotten thee;'
Then they gat up and went to Ziph before Saul. Now David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon in the Arabah, to the south of Jeshimon.
in burnt-offerings, and concerning sin-offerings, Thou didst not delight,
And the children of Israel did not keep in their minds Jehovah their God, who had been their saviour from all their haters on every side;
And what Samuel had said happened to all Israel. And Israel went out against the Philistines to battle, and encamped besides Eben-ezer; and the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
The Sichemites also were rewarded for what they had done, and the curse of Jotham the son of Jerobaal came upon them.
And there came a man of God to Heli, and said to him: Thus saith Jehovah: Did I not plainly appear to thy father's house, when they were in Egypt in the house of Pharao?
But if I am being poured out as a drink-offering on the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice and rejoice with all of you.
And news was given to Saul that David had been seen, and the men who were with him: now Saul was in Gibeah, seated under the tree in the high place, with his spear in his hand, and all his servants were in their places before him.
The children of Benjamin did so, and took wives for themselves, according to their number, of those who danced, whom they carried off. They went and returned to their inheritance, built the cities, and lived in them.
And David arose and fled that day for fear of Saul, and went to Achish the king of Gath.
And the sons of Israel add to do the evil thing in the eyes of Jehovah when Ehud is dead,
And Saul said to his servant: Thy word is very good, come, let us go. And they went into the city, where the man of God was.
And the priest's custom with the people was, that, when any man offered sacrifice, the priest's servant came, while the flesh was in seething, with a fleshhook of three teeth in his hand;
And Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on that side of the mountain: and David made haste to get away for fear of Saul; for Saul and his men compassed David and his men round about to take them.
though I myself might have confidence in the flesh. If any other man thinks that he hast confidence in the flesh, I yet more;
Then David arose, and came to the place where Saul had encamped; and David saw the place where Saul lay, with Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his army. Saul lay within the place of the wagons, and the people were encamped around him.
They gave him seventy pieces of silver out of the house of Baal Berith, with which Abimelech hired vain and light companions; who followed him.
And when Delilah saw that he had let her see into his heart, she sent word to the chiefs of the Philistines saying, Come up this time, for he hast let out all his heart to me. And the chiefs of the Philistines came to her, with the money in their hands.
Finally, my brothers, rejoice in Jehovah. To write the same things to you is not troublesome to me, but is a safeguard for you.
Went also himself to Ramatha, and came as far as the great cistern, which is in Soco, and he asked, and said: in what place are Samuel and David? And it was told him: Behold, they are in Najoth in Ramatha.
So the land rested forty years. Then Othniel son of Kenaz died.
Then David and the people who were with him raised their voices and wept until there was not enough strength in them to weep.
The children of Benjamin said, "They are struck down before us, as at the first." But the children of Israel said, "Let us flee, and draw them away from the city to the highways."
So Samuel turned again after Saul: and Saul adored Jehovah.
Thou hast subjected all things under his feet. For in that he subjected it, all things to him, he left nothing not subject to him. But now we see not as yet all things subject to him.
circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews; concerning the law, a Pharisee;
And have you completely forgotten the exhortation which instructs you as sons? "My son, do not make light of the Lord's instruction, or give up when you are corrected by him.
And he sendeth, and bringeth him in, and he ruddy, with beauty of eyes, and of good appearance: and Jehovah saith, `Rise, anoint him, for this he.'
And Israel was in great need because of Midian: and the cry of the children of Israel went up to Jehovah.
And they speak to him, saying, No, but we certainly bind thee, and have given thee into their hand, and we certainly do not put thee to death;' and they bind him with two thick hordes, new ones, and bring him up from the rock.
Then said Jonathan, Behold, we will pass over unto these men, and we will uncover ourselves unto them.
and Samson saith, `Let me die with the Philistines,' and he inclineth himself powerfully, and the house falleth on the princes, and on all the people who in it, and the dead whom he hath put to death in his death are more than those whom he put to death in his life.
So that there is still a Sabbath-keeping for the people of God.
And Jonathan answereth Saul his father, and saith unto him, `Why is he put to death? what hath he done?'
And he sent and brought him in. And he was ruddy, and besides of a lovely countenance and beautiful appearance. And Jehovah said, Arise, anoint him; for this is he.
And the children of Ammon shouting together, encamped their tents in Galaad: against whom the children of Israel assembled themselves together and encamped in Maspha.
and it hath been every one who is left in thy house doth come in to bow himself to him, for a wage of silver, and a cake of bread, and hath said, Admit me, I pray thee, unto one of the priest's offices, to eat a morsel of bread.'
The latter do so from love, knowing that I am appointed for the defense of the gospel.
And thou shalt see an enemy in my habitation, in all the wealth which God shall give Israel: and there shall not be an old man in thy house for ever.
And David went out whithersoever Saul sent him, and behaved himself wisely: and Saul set him over the men of war, and he was acceptable in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants.
After all that generation were gathered to their fathers, another generation arose after them, who didn't know Yahweh, nor the work which he had done for Israel.
And Samuel said to Saul, Thou hast done arrogantly; thou hast not kept the commandment of Jehovah thy God which he commanded thee; for now would even Jehovah, have established thy kingdom over Israel for ever.
Then Abimelech and the courses that were with him dashed out and stood at the entrance of the city gate, and the two courses dashed out against all who were in the field, and they killed them.
For he was looking for the strong village, whose builder and maker is God.
And David said to Abiathar, I was certain that day, when Doeg the Edomite was there, that he would take the news to Saul: I am responsible for the lives of all your father's family.
and they call the name of that place Bochim, and sacrifice there to Jehovah.
And Jephthah took an oath to Jehovah, and said, If you will give the children of Ammon into my hands,
Then crying out to Jehovah, they said, We have done evil, because we have been turned away from Jehovah, worshipping the Baals and the Astartes: but now, make us safe from those who are against us and we will be your servants.
They answered them and said, "There is. Look, he is righteous in before you! Hurry now, because he hast come to the village today, because there is a sacrifice for the people to-day at the high place.
But only a great fear of being judged, and of the fire of wrath which will be the destruction of the haters of God.
Then he said, I have sinned: yet honor me now, I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and turn again with me, that I may worship Jehovah thy God.
And the lookouts of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin saw that the multitude surged back and forth.
And it came about, that, when he went away from Samuel, God gave him a changed heart: and all those signs took place that day.
And Jehovah will render to every man his righteousness and his faithfulness; for Jehovah gave thee into hand this day, and I would not stretch forth my hand against Jehovah's anointed.
and Jehovah had uncovered the ear of Samuel one day before the coming of Saul, saying,
Therefore, leaving behind the elementary message about Christ, let us move on to maturity, not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works and faith in God,
Please do not let my lord set his heart against this worthless man, Nabal; for as his name, so is he. Nabal is his name, and stupidity is with him! But I, your female servant, did not see the young men of my lord whom you sent.
And he said, "Go." He sent her away for two months, and she went with its friends, and she lamented for her virginity on the mountains.
But the man would not tarry that night, but he rose up and departed, and went over against Jebus, which is Jerusalem; and there were with him two asses saddled, his concubine also was with him.
and if, indeed, they had been mindful of that from which they came forth, they might have had an opportunity to return,
Finally, rejoice in Jehovah. To write the same things to you, to me indeed is not grievous, but for you it is safe.
And it happened, when Israel grew strong, they put the Canaanites to forced labor, but they never totally drove them out.
By faith Abraham, when he was been approved, offered up Isaac: and he that received the promises offered up his only begotten son,
Tell him, 'Long life to you! Peace be to you and peace be to your house, and peace be to all that you have.
And the men of Ephraim came and said to him, Why did you not send for us when you went to war against Midian? And they said sharp and angry words to him.
And Saul said to Jehovah: O Jehovah, the God of Israel, give a sign, by which we may know what the meaning is, that thou answerest not thy servant to day. If this iniquity be in me, or in my son Jonathan, give a proof: or if this iniquity be in thy people, give sanctification. And Jonathan and Saul were taken, and the people escaped.
as to circumcision, [I received it] the eighth day; of race of Israel, of tribe of Benjamin, Hebrew of Hebrews; as to law, a Pharisee;
Then Michal took the image and put it in the bed, with a cushion of goat's hair at itself head, and she put clothing over it.
Wherefore I was wroth with this generation, and said, They always err in heart; and *they* have not known my ways;
So then Yahweh, the God of Israel, hast driven out the Amorites from before his people Israel, and you want to possess it?
He will keep the feet of his holy ones, but the evil-doers will come to their end in the dark night, for by strength no man will overcome.
And in the morning, when the sun is up, get up early and make a rush on the town; and when he and his people come out against you, do to them whatever you have a chance to do.
They called the name of that place Bochim, and they sacrificed there to Yahweh.
After that thou shalt come to the hill of God, where the garrison of the Philistines is: and when thou shalt be come there into the city, thou shalt meet a company of prophets coming down from the high place, with a psaltery and a timbrel, and a the pipe, and a harp before them, and they shall be prophesying.
David strapped his sword on his clothing, and he tried to move; for he had not tested it. David said to Saul, "I can't go with these: for I have not tested them." Then David took them off.
And they said unto him, Ask counsel, we pray thee, of God, that we may know whether our way which we go shall be prosperous.
And she saith to her young men, `Pass over before me; lo, after you I am coming;' and to her husband Nabal she hath not declared ;
So David overcame the Philistine with a sling and a stone, and smote the Philistine and killed him; and there was no sword in the hand of David.
Fulfil ye my joy, that ye be likeminded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind.
"When Jacob came to Egypt, your ancestors cried out to Yahweh, so he sent Moses and Aaron, and they brought your ancestors out from Egypt and settled them in this place.
And they said, We will willingly give . And they spread a garment, and cast therein every man the rings of his booty.
And the Beth-Shemeshites are reaping their wheat-harvest in the valley, and they lift up their eyes, and see the ark, and rejoice to see .
Now the house was full of men and women; and all the lords of the Philistines were there; and there were on the roof about three thousand men and women, who saw while Samson performed.
And they put away the foreign gods from among them, and served Jehovah; and his soul was grieved for the misery of Israel.
Hear, O ye kings; give ear, O ye princes; I, even I, will sing unto Jehovah; I will sing praise to Jehovah, the God of Israel.
and he cometh in unto folds of the flock, on the way, and there a cave, and Saul goeth in to cover his feet; and David and his men in the uttermost parts of the cave are abiding.
And the men of Israel turned again upon the children of Benjamin, and smote them with the edge of the sword, as well the men of city as the cattle, and all that was found; even all the cities that were found did they set on fire.
then Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, 'Please let me pass through your land;' but the king of Edom didn't listen. In the same way, he sent to the king of Moab; but he would not: and Israel stayed in Kadesh.
So they set up for themselves the graven divine image that Micah had made, all the days that the house of God was in Shiloh.
laying that God able to raise even from among dead, whence also he received him in a figure.
The priest accepted the offer, and he took the ephod, teraphim, and molten image and went along with the people.
and saith, `This is the custom of the king who doth reign over you: Your sons he doth take, and hath appointed for himself among his chariots, and among his horsemen, and they have run before his chariots;
And Abisai said to David: God hath shut up thy enemy this day into thy hands: now then I will run him through with my spear even to the earth at once, and there shall be no need of a second time.
Who being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God:
and the Spirit of Jehovah beginneth to move him in the camp of Dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.
And it shall come to pass, that the Philistine hath risen, and goeth, and draweth near to meet David, and David hasteth and runneth to the rank to meet the Philistine,
And they pass over thence the hill-country of Ephraim, and come in unto the house of Micah.
And both of them showed themselves to the garrison of the Philistines; and the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews come forth out of the clefts where they had hid themselves.
And they will salute thee, and will give thee two loaves, and thou shalt take them at their hand.
But Saul gave Michol his daughter, David's wife, to Phalti, the son of Lais, who was of Gallium.
and it hath been when these signs come to thee -- do for thyself as thy hand findeth, for God with thee.
The children of Benjamin went out against the people, and were drawn away from the city; and they began to strike and kill of the people, as at the other times, in the highways, of which one goes up to Beth-el, and the other to Gibeah, in the field, about thirty men of Israel.
Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, "Please let us cross through your land," but the king of Edom would not listen. And they also sent messengers to the king of Moab, but he was not willing. So Israel stayed in Kadesh.
Yahweh hast done to you just as he spoke by my hand! Yahweh hast torn the kingdom from your hand and hast given it to your neighbor, to David.
And Jonathan cried after the lad, Make speed, haste, stay not. And Jonathan's lad gathered up the arrows, and came to his master.
"'This will be the sign to you, that will come on your two sons, on Hophni and Phinehas. in one day they will both die.
When Jacob and his sons had come into Egypt, and were crushed by the Egyptians, the prayers of your fathers came up to Jehovah, and Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, who took your fathers out of Egypt, and he put them into this place.
and unto the messengers, indeed, He saith, `Who is making His messengers spirits, and His ministers a flame of fire;'
There remains therefore a Sabbath rest for the people of God.
And the men of Israel see that Abimelech dead, and go each one to his place;
who unto an example and shadow do serve of the heavenly things, as Moses hath been divinely warned, being about to construct the tabernacle, for `See (saith He) thou mayest make all things according to the pattern that was shewn to thee in the mount;') --
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered together their hosts to be prepared for war against Israel: and Achis said to David: Know thou now assuredly, that thou shalt go out with me to the war, thou, and thy men.
And Achish saith, `Whither have ye push to-day?' and David saith, `Against the south of Judah, and against the south of the Jerahmeelite, and unto the south of the Kenite.'
And they went out into the fields, and gathered their vineyards, and trod the grapes, and made merry; and went into the house of their god, and did eat and drink, and cursed Abimelech.
Now these are the nations which Jehovah left, to prove Israel by them, even as many of Israel as had not known all the wars of Canaan;
Wherever they went out, Yahweh's hand was against them for evil, as Yahweh had spoken, and as Yahweh vouchsafed unto them; and they were very distressed.
For indeed we have had glad tidings presented to us, even as they also; but the word of report did not profit *them*, not being mixed with faith in those who heard.
And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself, and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross.
And there fell of Benjamin eighteen thousand men: all these, men of valor.
And he defeated them with a very great blow, from Aroer as far as Minnith, twenty towns, up to Abel Keramim. And the Ammonites were subdued before Israelites.
David also took Ahinoam of Jezreel, and they were also both of them his wives.
For the bodies of those beasts, whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sin, are burned without the camp.
And Saul and the people spared Agag, And the best of the sheep and oxen, and beasts of the second off bearing, and the lambs, and all that was good, and would not devote them to destruction; but everything that was mean and weak, that they destroyed utterly.
Thus, having patiently endured, he obtained promise.
For for me to live Christ, and to die gain;
And yet you have forsaken me, and have worshipped strange gods: therefore I will deliver you no more:
Yahweh came, and stood, and called as at the other times, "Samuel! Samuel!" Then Samuel said, "Speak; for your servant hears."
For the land which hast drunk the rain that comes often on it, and produces a crop suitable for them for whose sake it is also tilled, receives blessing from God;
And when every one had seen this, they all cried out: There was never such a thing done in Israel from the day that our fathers came up out of Egypt, until this day: give tenor of the sentence and decree in common what ought to be done.
And Saul said unto him, Why have ye conspired against me, thou and the son of Jesse, in that thou hast given him bread, and a sword, and hast inquired of God for him, that he should rise against me, to lie in wait, as at this day?
The priest's heart was glad, and he took the ephod, the teraphim, and the engraved image, and went with the people.
And David said, What have I now done? Is there not a cause?
David said to Achish, "Therefore you will know what your servant can do." Achish said to David, "Therefore I will make you my bodyguard forever."
And David riseth early in the morning, and leaveth the flock to a keeper, and lifteth up, and goeth, as Jesse commanded him, and he cometh in to the path, and to the force which is going out unto the battle array, and they have shouted for battle;
And Samuel spoke to all the house of Israel, saying, If ye return to Jehovah with all your heart, put away the foreign gods and the Ashtoreths from among you, And apply your hearts unto Jehovah, and serve him only; and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
And Samuel said, When thou wast little in thine own sight, wast thou not made the head of the tribes of Israel, and Jehovah anointed thee king over Israel?
Then let us all, who have come to full growth, be of this mind; and if in anything you are of a different mind, even this will God make clear to you:
David rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep with a keeper, and took and went, as Jesse had commanded him. He came to the place of the wagons, as the army which was going out to fight shouted for the battle.
For it was fitting for him for whom are all things and through whom are all things in bringing many sons to glory to perfect the originator of their salvation through sufferings.
So the woman gave birth to a son, and gave him the name Samson; and he became a man and the blessing of Jehovah was on him.
He came up, and told his father and his mother, and said, "I have seen a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines. Now therefore get her for me as my wife."
When David learned that Saul was plotting evil against him, he said to Abiathar the priest, "Bring the ephod here."
For everyone who partakes of milk is unacquainted with the message of righteousness, because he is an infant.
And Abigail hasteth and riseth, and rideth on the ass; and five of her young women who are going at her feet; and she goeth after the messengers of David, and is to him for a wife.
And the Gileadites took the crossing-places of the Jordan against the Ephraimites; and when any of the men of Ephraim who had gone in flight said, let me go over; the men of Gilead said to him, Are you an Ephraimite? And if he said, No,
and in this again, `If they shall enter into My rest -- ;'
They came to their brothers at Zorah and Eshtaol; and their brothers asked them, "What do you say?"
For he was expecting the city that hast foundations, whose architect and builder is God.
And Gaal the son of Obed cried: Who is Abimelech, and what is Shechem, that we should serve him? Is he not the son of Jerobaal, and hath made Zebul his servant ruler over the men of Emor the father of Sichem? Why then shall we serve him?
and as a mantle Thou shall roll them together, and they shall be changed, and Thou art the same, and Thy years shall not fail.'
By faith he left Egypt, not fearing the fierceness of the king; for he endured as seeing him that is invisible.
But if ye do wickedly, ye shall perish, both ye and your king.
Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honorable, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report; if there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things.
Therefore they commanded the children of Benjamin, saying, Go and lie in wait in the vineyards;
But Christ having come as a high priest of the coming good things, through the greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this creation,
And David goeth on, he and six hundred men who with him, and they come in unto the brook of Besor, and those left have stood still,
Go and cry unto the gods which ye have chosen; let them deliver you in the time of your affliction.
And Saul saith to Ahijah, `Bring nigh the ark of God;' for the ark of God hath been on that day with the sons of Israel.
And Jephthah passed over to the children of Ammon to fight against them; and Jehovah gave them into his hand.
Saul sent messengers to seize David: and when they saw the company of the prophets prophesying, and Samuel standing as head over them, God's Spirit came on Saul's messengers, and they also prophesied.
And Saul and his men went in search of him. And David had word of it, so he came down to the rock in the waste land of Maon. And Saul, hearing of this, went after David into the waste land of Maon.
They were left for testing Israel, to know whether they would keep the commands of Yahweh that he commanded their ancestors through Moses.
Therefore on that day he named him Jerub-Baal, saying, "Let Baal contend against him, because he hast broken down his altar."
He raiseth from the dust the poor, From a dunghill He lifteth up the needy, To cause to sit with nobles, Yea, a throne of honor He doth cause them to inherit, For to even Jehovah, the fixtures of earth, And He setteth on them the habitable world.
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbaal went to Shechem unto his mother's brethren, and communed with them, and with all the family of the house of his mother's father, saying,
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee: for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them.
Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented him, and buried him in Ramah, even in his own city. And Saul had put away those that had familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land.
One day Jonathan the son of Saul said to his armor bearer, "Come and let us go over to the garrison of the Philistines which is over there." But he did not tell his father.
and she saith, `I do certainly go with thee; only, surely thy glory is not on the way which thou art going, for into the hand of a woman doth even Jehovah, sell Sisera;' and Deborah riseth and goeth with Barak to Kedesh.
Was it to-day that I began to inquire of God for him? be it far from me; let not the king charge anything to his servant, to all the house of my father; for thy servant knew nothing of all this, less or more.
The God's Spirit came mightily on Saul when he heard these words, and his anger burned hot.
Because of this it was necessary for him to be made like his brothers in every way, so that he might be a high priest full of lovingkindness and keeping faith in everything to do with God, making offerings for the sins of the people.
And they went up and encamped in Kirjath-jearim, in Judah: therefore they call that place Mahaneh-Dan to this day: behold, it is behind Kirjath-jearim.
Salute all your leaders and all the saints. those from Italy salute you.
And he presented the gifts to Eglon king of Moab. Now Eglon was exceeding fat.
The Philistine came near morning and evening, and presented himself forty days.
And if the man said to him, First let the fat be burned, then take as much as you will; then the servant would say, No, you are to give it to me now, or I will take it by force.
They gave Hebron to Caleb, as Moses had said, and he drove the three sons of Anak out of there.
And he had an helmet of brass upon his head, and he was armed with a coat of mail; and the weight of the coat was five thousand shekels of brass.
One day the trees went out to make a king for themselves; and they said to the olive-tree, Be king over us.
and Gideon maketh it into an ephod, and setteth it up in his city, in Ophrah, and all Israel go a-whoring after it there, and it is to Gideon and to his house for the toils.
while God was testifying at the same time by signs and wonders and various signs and distributions of the Holy Spirit according to his will.
Then Gideon, hearing the commentary of the dream and the sense in which they took it, gave worship; then he went back to the tents of Israel, and said, Up! for Jehovah hast given the army of Midian into your hands.
But if I live on in the flesh, this will bring fruit from my work; yet I don't know what I will choose.
for if the blood of bulls, and goats, and ashes of an heifer; sprinkling those defiled, doth sanctify to the purifying of the flesh,
When the boy had come to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot, Jonathan cried after the boy, and said, "Isn't the arrow beyond you?"
Make you full of every good work and ready to do all his desires, working in us whatever is pleasing in his eyes through Jesus Christ; and may the glory be given to him for ever and ever. So be it.
and the Philistines set themselves in array to meet Israel, and the battle spreadeth itself, and Israel is smitten before the Philistines, and they smite among the ranks in the field about four thousand men.
And the children of Benjamin did, as they had been commanded: and according to their number, they carried off for themselves every man his wife of them that were dancing: and they went into their possession and built up their cities, and dwelt in them.
And he died, and was buried in Pharathon in the land of Ephraim, in the mount of Amalech.
And Saul saith, `There is no man put to death on this day, for to-day hath Jehovah wrought salvation in Israel.'
And Ahijah, the son of Ahitub, Ichabod's brother, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eli, the Lord's priest in Shiloh, wearing an ephod. And the people knew not that Jonathan was gone.
Then said the woman, Whom shall I bring up to thee? And he said, Bring me up Samuel.
So Yahweh saved Israel that day; and the battle passed over by Beth Aven.
And Samson said unto them, I will now put forth a riddle unto you: if ye can certainly declare it me within the seven days of the feast, and find it out, then I will give you thirty sheets and thirty change of garments:
Gideon made an ephod out of it, and put it in Ophrah, his city. Then all Israel played the prostitute with it there; and it became a snare to Gideon, and to his house.
And they said to Samuel: cease not to cry to Jehovah our God for us, that he may save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
They said therefore unto him, Say now Shibboleth: and he said Sibboleth: for he could not suffer to pronounce it right. Then they took him, and slew him at the passages of the Jordan; and there fell at that time of the Ephraim forty and two thousand.
Wherefore then do ye harden your hearts the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their hearts? when he had wrought wonderfully among them, did they not let the people go, and they departed?
And to them that were in Rachal, and to them that were in the cities of the Jerahmeelites, and to them that were in the cities of the Kenite,
and encamp against them, and destroy the increase of the land till thine entrance Gaza; and they leave no sustenance in Israel, either sheep, or ox, or ass;
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh and unleavened wafers, and lay them upon this rock, and pour out the broth. And he did so.
And David gave Saul his oath. And Saul went back to his house; but David and his men went up to their safe place.
After Abimelech there arose a ruler in Israel, Thola son of Phua the uncle of Abimelech, a man of Issachar, who dwelt in Samir of mount Ephraim:
Then Jehovah gave them judges, as their saviours from the hands of those who were cruel to them.
Therefore neither the priests of Dagon nor any that come into Dagon's house tread on the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod, unto this day.
And his father and mother said to him: Is there no woman among the daughters of thy brethren, or among all my people, that thou wilt take a wife of the Philistines, who are uncircumcised? And Samson said to his father: Take this woman for me, for she hath pleased my eyes.
They with the household of Micah, and they have discerned the voice of the young man, the Levite, and turn aside there, and say to him, `Who hath brought thee hither? and what art thou doing in this [place?] and what to thee here?'
And ye shall cry out in that day because of your king whom ye have chosen; and Jehovah will not answer you in that day.
Then Micah said, "Now know I that Yahweh will do good to me, since I have a Levite as my priest."
David saved neither man nor woman alive, to bring them to Gath, saying, "Lest they should tell about us, saying, 'David did this, and this hast been his way all the time he hast lived in the country of the Philistines.'"
And you have not kept in mind the word which says to you as to sons, My son, do not make little of the Lord's punishment and do not give up hope when you are judged by him;
But the children of Israel he was returning put all the remains of the city to the sword, both men and beasts, and all the cities and the villages of Benjamin were consumed with devouring of flame.
And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him, and gave it to David, and his garments, even to his sword, and to his bow, and to his girdle.
having been confident of this very thing, that He who did begin in you a good work, will perform till a day of Jesus Christ,
Blessed above women shall Jael the wife of Heber Kain be, Blessed above women in the tent!
He said to the men of Succoth, "Please give loaves of bread to the people who are following me, for they are weary, and I am pursuing Zebah and Zalmunna, the kings of Midian."
They said: We will not kill thee: but we will deliver thee up bound. And they bound him with two new cords, and brought him from the rock Etam.
we may come near, then, with freedom, to the throne of the grace, that we may receive kindness, and find favor -- for seasonable help.
And these came into Micah's house, and took the graven image of the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image. And the priest said to them, What do ye?
But his wife said unto him, If Jehovah were pleased to kill us, he would not have received a burnt-offering and a meal-offering at our hands, neither would he have showed us all these things, nor would as at this time have told us such things as these.
This man went up out of his city from year to year to worship and to sacrifice to Yahweh of Armies in Shiloh. The two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, priests to Yahweh, were there.
Jehovah render to every man his righteousness and his faithfulness; for Jehovah delivered thee into my hand to day, but I would not stretch forth my hand against the Lord's anointed.
confidently in my every supplication, making the supplication for you all with joy,
And it came to pass, when Saul was returned from following the Philistines, that it was told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of En-gedi.
Please forgive the transgression of your female servant, because Yahweh will certainly make a everlasting house for my lord, because my lord is fighting the battles of Yahweh, and evil will not be found in you as long as you live.
If then, we have a kingdom which will never be moved, let us have grace, so that we may give God such worship as is pleasing to him with fear and respect:
For this Melchisedec, King of Salem, priest of the Most High God, who met Abraham returning from smiting the kings, and blessed him;
So Manoah got up and went after his wife, and he came to the man and said to him, "Are you the man that spoke to the woman?" And he said, "I am."
And it was so, that, after they had carried it about, the hand of Jehovah was against the city with a very great destruction: and he smote the men of the city, both small and great, and they had emerods in their secret parts.
And Jehovah, turning to him, said, Go in the strength you have and be Israel's saviour from Midian: have I not sent you?
After him was Shamgar the son of Anath, who struck six hundred men of the Philistines with an ox goad. He also saved Israel.
An evil spirit from Yahweh was on Saul, as he sat in his house with his spear in his hand; and David was playing with his hand.
having become by so much better than the angels, as the name which is his heritage is more noble than theirs.
And all the people likewise cut down every man his bough, and they followed Abimelech, and put to the stronghold, and burned the hold with fire upon them. And all the men of the tower of Shechem died also, about a thousand men and women.
And it cometh to pass, on the morrow, that the people go out to the field, and they declare to Abimelech,
And an angel of Jehovah went up from Galgal to the place of weepers, and said: I made you go out of Egypt, and have brought you into the land for which I swore to your fathers: and I promised that I would not make void my covenant with you for ever:
who by faith overcame kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped lions' mouths,
And he said unto Jether his first-born, Up, and slay them. But the youth drew not his sword; for he feared, because he was yet a youth.
And this shall be the sign to you, which will come on Hophni and Phinehas, your sons; death will overtake them on the same day.
by which will we are made holy through the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
For unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake,
How Jacob went into Egypt, and your fathers cried to Jehovah: and Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, and brought your fathers out of Egypt: and made them dwell in this place.
And the sin of these young men was very great before Jehovah; for they gave no honor to the Lord's offerings.
Now on the day after, an evil spirit from God came on Saul with great force and he was acting like a prophet among the men of his house, while David was making music for him, as he did day by day; and Saul had his spear in his hand.
And Saul's uncle said unto him and to his servant, Whither went ye? And he said, To seek the asses: and when we saw that they were no where, we came to Samuel.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, give, I pray you, loaves of bread unto the people that follow me; for they be faint, and I am pursuing after Zebah and Zalmunna, kings of Midian.
Then the children of Israel again did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah made Eglon, king of Moab, strong against Israel, because they had done evil in the Lord's eyes.
And Judah went with Simeon, his brother, and overcame the Canaanites living in Zephath, and put it under the curse; and he gave the village the name of Hormah.
Then the men of Israel went out from Mizpah and pursued the Philistines and they smote them down as far as below Beth Car.
Saul listened to the voice of Jonathan; and Saul swore, "As Yahweh lives, he shall not be put to death."
He keepeth the feet of his saints, but the wicked are silenced in darkness; for by strength shall no man prevail.
Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the concision.
And the ark of God was taken; and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, died.
how shall *we* escape if we have been ready always of so great salvation, who, having had itself commencement in being spoken by Jehovah, hast been confirmed to us by those who have heard,
Now Saul was staying at the outskirts of Gibeah under the pomegranate tree that was in Migron, and the troops that were with him were about six hundred men.
And Abimelech went after him and he went in flight before him; and a great number were falling by the sword all the way up to the town.
For as long as the son of Jesse liveth upon the ground, thou shalt not be established nor thy kingdom. Wherefore now send and fetch him unto me, for he shall surely die.
He is able to have feeling for those who have no knowledge and for those who are wandering from the true way, because he himself is feeble;
They that are delivered from the noise of archers in the places of drawing water, there shall they rehearse the righteous acts of Jehovah, even the righteous acts toward the inhabitants of his villages in Israel: then shall the people of Jehovah go down to the gates.
He had forty sons and thirty sons' sons who went on seventy young asses therewith; and he was judge of Israel for eight years.
He answered them: Michas hath done such and such things for me, and hath hired me to be his priest.
for He doth testify -- `Thou a priest -- to the age, according to the ordinance of Melchisedek;'
And he said, Why does my lord go armed against his servant? what have I done? or what evil is there in me?
Now Yahweh had revealed to Samuel a day before Saul came, saying,
In those days there was no king in Israel: every man did that which was right in his own eyes.
And he brought him into his house, and gave provender to his asses: and after they had washed their feet, he entertained them with a feast.
Then Samuel took the bowl of oil, and poured it on his head, and kissed him, and said, "Hasn't Yahweh anointed you to be prince over his inheritance?
And the word was displeasing in the eyes of Samuel, that they should say: Give us a king, to judge us. And Samuel prayed to Jehovah.
But Christ as the Son in his own house: which house are we, if we hold fast the confidence and glory of hope unto the end.
For it is impossible to renew again to repentance those once enlightened, and who have tasted of the heavenly gift, and have been made partakers of Holy Spirit,
And Saul's father's brother said to him and his servant, Where have you been? And he said, searching for the asses: and when we saw no sign of them, we came to Samuel.
And Jael Heber's wife took a tent-pin, and took the hammer in her hand, and went softly to him, and smote the pin into his temples, and it penetrated into the ground; for he had fallen into a deep sleep and was faint; and he died.
Now Zebah and Zalmunna were in Karkor, and their armies with them, about fifteen thousand men remained from the entire army of the people of the east; those that fell in battle were one hundred and twenty thousand swordsmen.
And they shall not teach every man his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying, Know Jehovah; for all shall know me, from the least to the greatest.
And the thorn-bush said to the trees, If in truth ye anoint me king over you, come, put confidence in my shadow; but if not, fire shall come out of the thorn-bush and devour the cedars of Lebanon.
And they cried unto the children of Dan. And they turned their faces, and said unto Micah, What aileth thee, that thou comest with such a company?
And Judah went with his brother Simeon, and they defeated the Canaanites inhabiting Zephath; they utterly destroyed it, so he called the name of the city Hormah.
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah: and he delivered them into the hand of Madian seven years.
And Saul clotheth David with his long robe, and hath put a helmet of brass on his head, and doth clothe him with a coat of mail.
And they put his body in the earth in the land of his heritage in Timnath-heres, in the hill-country of Ephraim to the north of Mount Gaash.
But he, because he continues forever, holds the priesthood permanently.
And she said to her servants: Go before me: behold, I will follow after you: but she told not her husband Nabal.
Because it is clear that our Lord comes out of Judah, and Moses said nothing about priests from that tribe.
And Ahimelech answered the king and said, And who is so faithful among all thy servants as David, who is the king's son-in-law, and hast access to thy secret council, and is honorable in thy house?
And they have taken that which Micah had made, and the priest whom he had, and come in against Laish, against a people quiet and of good courage, and smite them by the mouth of the sword, and the city have burnt with fire,
He said therefore to them also: When I shall return a conqueror in peace, I will destroy this tower.
And call Jesse to the burnt-offering, and I will show thee what thou shalt do: and thou shalt anoint unto me him whom I name unto thee.
And Saul turneth back from pursuing after David, and goeth to meet the Philistines, therefore they have called that place `The Rock of Divisions.'
The only one I will not cut off from my altar is you. Rather, to cause your eyes to fail and to cause your soul to grieve, all the members of your household will die as men.
And the king said: Dying thou shalt die, Achimelech, thou and all thy father's house.
And David learned of even Jehovah, yet again. And Jehovah answered him and said, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will give the Philistines into thy hand.
the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ with you all.
and he hath gone from year to year; and gone round Beth-El, and Gilgal, and Mizpeh, and judged Israel all these places;
And Jehovah said to Gideon, By those three hundred who were drinking with their tongues I will give you salvation and give the Midianites into your hands; let the rest of the people go away, every man to his place.
And the Bene-Ammon pass over the the Jordan to fight also against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim, and Israel hath great distress.
But Sihon didn't trust Israel to pass through his border; but Sihon gathered all his people together, and encamped in Jahaz; and fought against Israel.
And the Philistines followed hard upon Saul and upon his sons; and the Philistines slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Melchishua, Saul's sons.
For the one at work in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure, is God.
And when they saw him, they brought thirty companions to be with him.
And Yahweh threw Sisera and all his chariots and army into confusion before the edge of Barak's sword; and Sisera dismounted from his chariot and fled on foot.
And the men of Israel came together from Naphtali and from Asher and all Manasseh, and went after Midian.
See that you don't refuse him who speaks. For if they didn't escape when they refused him who warned on the earth, how much more will we not escape who turn away from him who warns from heaven,
"After that you will come to the hill of God, where the garrison of the Philistines is; and it will happen, when you have come there to the city, that you will meet a band of prophets coming down from the high place with a lute, a tambourine, a the pipe, and a harp before them; and they will be prophesying.
And it cometh to pass when Saul hath turned back from after the Philistines, that they declare to him, saying, `Lo, David in the wilderness of En-gedi.'
For finding trespass, He saith to them, `Lo, days come, saith Jehovah, and I will complete with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah, a new covenant,
and now he hath obtained a more excellent service, how much also of a better covenant is he mediator, which on better promises hath been sanctioned,
And Saul hasteth and falleth -- the fulness of his stature -- to the earth, and feareth greatly because of the words of Samuel: also power was not in him, for he had not eaten bread all the day, and all the night.
and David riseth afterwards, and went out from the cave, and calleth after Saul, saying, `My lord, O king!' And Saul looketh oh, hear behind him, and David boweth -- face to the earth -- and doth obeisance.
David knew that Saul was devising mischief against him; and he said to Abiathar the priest, "Bring the ephod here."
It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
Also Judah took Gaza, the border thereof, and Askelon with the border thereof, and Ekron with the border thereof.
When the day came that Elkanah sacrificed, he gave to Peninnah his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters; portions;
And threw it, thinking to nail David to the wall: and David stept aside out of his presence twice.
Yahweh called yet again, "Samuel!" Samuel arose and went to Eli, and said, "Here I am, for you called me." He answered, "I didn't call, my son. Lie down again."
It was therefore necessary that the patterns things in the heavens should be purified with these: but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these.
Then Samuel took a stone and put it up between Mizpah and Jeshanah, naming it Eben-ezer, and saying, Up to now Jehovah hast been our help.
And Samuel said to Saul, Why have you made me come up, troubling my rest? And Saul in answer said, I am in great danger; for the Philistines are making war on me, and God hast gone away from me and will no longer give me any answer, by the prophets or by dreams: so I have sent for you to make clear to me what I am to do.
And no man taketh this honor unto himself, but he that is called of God, as was Aaron.
(for the law made nothing perfect), but on the other hand there is the introduction of a better hope through which we draw near to God.
Nevertheless the people refused to obey the voice of Samuel: and they said, Nay; but we will have a king over us;
for partakers we have become of the Christ, if the beginning of the confidence unto the end we may hold fast,
Your servant hast overcome lion and bear: and the fate of this Philistine, who is without circumcision, will be like theirs, seeing that he hast put shame on the armies of the living God.
which is a symbol of the present age, where gifts and sacrifices are offered that are incapable, concerning the conscience, of making the worshiper perfect:
But the vine said to them, 'Should I stop producing my wine that makes the gods and men happy, to go sway over the trees?'
That all of you have conspired against me, and there is no one to shall teach me, especially when even my son hath entered into covenant with the soil of Isai? There is not one of you that pitieth my case, nor that giveth me any information: because my son hath raised up my servant against me, plotting against me to this day.
insomuch that the children of Ammon passing over the the Jordan, wasted Judah and Benjamin and Ephraim: and Israel was distressed exceedingly.
honorable the marriage in all, and the bed undefiled, and whoremongers and adulterers God shall judge.
And Saul summoneth the whole of the people to battle, to go down to Keilah, to lay siege unto David and unto his men.
The Israelites did evil in the sight of Yahweh, and Yahweh gave them into the hand of the Midianites for seven years.
Yea, I beg you also, true partner, help these women, for they labored with me in the Good News, with Clement also, and the rest of my fellow workers, whose names are in the book of life.
and a woman cast the upper stone of a handmill on Abimelech's head, and crushed his skull.
And it came to pass one day when Heli lay in his place, and his eyes were grown dim, that he could not see:
Then said he to all Israel, Be ye on one side, and I and Jonathan my son will be on the other side. And the people said to Saul, Do what is good in thy sight.
And Saul said, Hear now, thou son of Ahitub. And he answered, Here I am, my lord.
And put their army in array against Israel. And when they had joined battle, Israel turned their backs to the Philistines, and there was slain in that fight here and there in the fields about four thousand men.
And they shall not teach each his fellow-citizen, and each his brother, saying, Know Jehovah; because all shall know me in themselves, from little one [among them] unto great among them.
wherefore, also, God did highly exalt him, and gave to him a name that above every name,
In those days there was no king in Israel. Everyone did that which was right in his own eyes.
And Jehovah called again the third time, Samuel! And he arose and went to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou calledst me. And Eli perceived that Jehovah was calling the boy.
addressed by God high priest according to the ordinance of Melchisedec.
David said in his heart, "I will now perish one day by the hand of Saul. There is nothing better for me than that I should escape into the land of the Philistines; and Saul will despair concerning me, to seek me any more in all the borders of Israel. So shall I escape out of his hand."
And Gaal the son of Ebed said, Who is Abimelech, and who is Shechem, that we should serve him? is not he the son of Jerubbaal? and Zebul his officer? serve the men of Hamor the father of Shechem; for why should we serve him?
David swore to Saul. Saul went home, but David and his men went up to the stronghold.
Yahweh makes poor and makes rich; he brings low and also exalts.
for of those beasts whose blood is brought for sin into the holy places through the chief priest -- of these the bodies are burned without the camp.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and they served the Baalim.
And you have gone against my father's family this day, and have put to death his sons, even seventy men on one stone, and have made Abimelech, the son of his servant-wife, king over the townsmen of Shechem because he is your brother;)
Then answered one of the people and said, Thy father strictly adjured the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth food this day; and the people are faint.
And Jephthah fleeth from the face of his brethren, and dwelleth in the land of Tob; and vain men gather themselves together unto Jephthah, and they go out with him.
By faith also of things to come, Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau.
For by it our fathers had God's approval.
And even Jehovah, saith unto him, `Because I am with thee -- thou hast smitten the Midianites as one man.'
David sent spies, and he learned that Saul had come for certain.
And Samuel said, Has Jehovah as much delight in offerings and burned offerings as in the doing of his orders? Truly, to do his pleasure is better than to make burnt-offerings, and to give ear to him than the fat of sheep.
But his wife took one of his friends and bridal companions for her husband.
And Samuel slept till morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah. And Samuel feared to tell the vision to Heli.
ye shall make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land; ye shall throw down their altars: but ye have not hearkened unto my voice. Why have ye done this?
Then said the trees to the vine, Come thou, reign over us.
And Zebul saith unto him, `Where now thy mouth, in that thou sayest, Who Abimelech that we serve him? is not this the people against which thou hast kicked? go out, I pray thee now, and fight against it.'
And the first slaughter which Jonathan and his armorbearer made, was of about twenty men, within half a acre of land, which a yoke of oxen is wont to plough in a day.
(Therefore the priests of Dagon and all who come into the house of Dagon do not tread on the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod, until this very day).
My heart is toward the governors of Israel, that offered themselves willingly among the people. Bless ye Jehovah.
Because for the work of Christ he came to the point of death: delivering his life, that he might fulfill that which on your part was wanting towards my service.
And David was greatly troubled; for the people were talking of stoning him, because their hearts were bitter, every man sorrowing for his sons and his daughters: but David made himself strong in Jehovah his God.
And Zebee and Salmana said: Do thou arise, and run upon us; because the strength of a man is according to his age: Gedeon rose up and slew Zebee and Salmana: and he took the ornaments and bosses, with which necks of the camels of kings are wont to be adorned.
and the weight of the rings of gold which he asked is a thousand and seven hundred of gold, apart from the round ornaments, and the drops, and the purple garments, which on the kings of Midian, and apart from the chains which on the necks of their camels,
Then the king said to Doeg, "You turn and attack the priests!" So Doeg the Edomite turned and attacked the priests himself, and on that day he killed eighty-five men who wore the linen ephod.
It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
But if it produces thorns and thistles, it is worthless and near to a curse, whose end is for burning.
But the spirit of Jehovah departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from Jehovah troubled him.
Then David took an oath again and said, "Your father knows very well that I have found favor in your eyes, and he thought, 'Do not let Jonathan know this, lest he worry.' But as Yahweh lives and as your soul lives, surely there is merely a step between me and death!"
And they arose and went to Ziph before Saul: and David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the plain at the right hand of Jesimon.
And Gaal the son of Ebed came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem; and the men of Shechem put their confidence in him.
Now the young Samuel was the servant of Jehovah before Eli. In those days Jehovah kept his word secret from men; there was no open vision.
For every house is built by some one; but he who hast built all things God.
And the bearer of his weapons seeth that Saul dead, and he falleth -- he also -- on his sword, and dieth with him;
I went out after him, and smote him, and rescued it out of his mouth. When he arose against me, I caught him by his beard, and smote him, and killed him.
Gaal son of Ebed went out and stood at the entrance of the city gate, and Abimelech and the army that was with him got up from the ambush.
So twenty-five thousand of the swordsmen of Benjamin came to their end that day, all strong men of war.
Villages ceased in Israel -- they ceased, Till that I arose -- Deborah that I arose, a mother in Israel.
And when he saw the traveller in the street of the village, the old man said, Where are you going? and where do you come from?
The price was one payim each to sharpen mattocks, plowshares, pitchforks, axes, and goads.
For indeed, as Yahweh, the God of Israel, lives, who hast withheld me from harming you, unless you had hurried and come to meet me, surely there wouldn't have been left to Nabal by the morning light so much as one who urinates on a wall."
Therefore Saul removed him from his presence, and made him his captain over a thousand; and he went out and came in before the people.
And Jonathan went up, gripping with his hands and his feet, his servant ascent after him; and the Philistines gave way before Jonathan when he made an attack on them, and his servant put them to death after him.
And set it before Saul, and before his servants. And when they had eaten they rose up, and walked all that night.
And the Philistines took the ark of God and brought it into the house of Dagon, and set it by Dagon.
And the sons of Israel go up and wept before Jehovah till the evening, and ask of Jehovah, saying, `Do I add to draw nigh to battle with the sons of Benjamin, my brother?' And Jehovah saith, `Go up against him.'
The lords of Gibeah rose up against me and surrounded the house at night. They intended to kill me, and they raped my concubine, and she died.
Isai therefore brought his seven sons before Samuel: and Samuel said to Isai: Jehovah hath not chosen any one of these.
And they stood every man in his place round about the camp; and all the host ran, and cried out, and fled.
Saul was a child of one year when he began to reign; and he reigned two years over Israel.
And it shall come to pass, that every one that is left in thy house shall come and crouch to him for a piece of silver and a morsel of bread, and shall say, Put me, I pray thee, into one of the priests' offices, that I may eat a piece of bread.
All the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and set themselves in array at Baal Tamar. Then the ambushers of Israel broke out of their place, even out of Maareh Geba.
Wherefore when he cometh into the world, he saith, Sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not, but a body hast thou prepared me:
Rejoice in Jehovah always: and again I say, Rejoice.
So give me your oath by Jehovah, that you will not put an end to my seed after me or let my name be cut off from my father's family.
And when he was come home he took a sword, and divided the dead body of his wife with its bones into twelve parts, and sent the pieces into all the borders of Israel.
And Eli said unto her, How long wilt thou be drunken? put away thy wine from thee.
And they will ask after thy welfare, and give thee two loaves, which thou shalt receive of their hands.
And Manoah saith unto the messenger of Jehovah, `Let us detain thee, we pray thee, and prepare before thee a male of the goats.'
and all Israel know, from Dan even unto Beer-Sheba, that Samuel is established for a prophet to Jehovah.
Here is my virgin daughter and his concubine. I will bring them out now. Humble them, and do with them what seems good to you; but to this man don't do any such folly."
When David's young men came, they spoke to Nabal all those words in the name of David, and waited.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it from Eben-ezer to Ashdod.
and voweth a vow, and saith, `Jehovah of Hosts, if Thou dost certainly look on the affliction of Thy handmaid, and hast remembered me, and dost not forget Thy handmaid, and hast given to Thy handmaid seed of men -- then I have given him to Jehovah all the days of his life and a razor doth not go up upon his head.'
and he saith unto her, `Rise, and we go;' and there is none answering, and he taketh her on the ass, and the man riseth and goeth to his place,
Why do you make your hearts hard, like the hearts of Pharaoh and the Egyptians? When he had made sport of them, did they not let the people go, and they went away?
And in nothing terrified by your adversaries: which is to them an evident token of perdition, but to you of salvation, and that of God.
And the Philistine said, I defy the armies of Israel this day; give me a man, that we may fight together.
And Saul and Jonathan his son, and the people that were present with them, were in Gabaa of Benjamin: but the Philistines encamped in Machmas.
If therefore perfection were by the Levitical priesthood, (for under it the people received the law,) what further need was there that another priest should rise after the order of Melchisedec, and not be called after the order of Aaron?
not like the covenant which I made with their fathers on the day I took hold of them by my hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt, because they did not continue in my covenant and I disregarded them, says Jehovah.
And it came to pass afterwards that David's heart smote him, because he had cut off Saul's skirt.
But now thy kingdom shall not continue: Jehovah hath sought him a man after his own heart, and Jehovah hath commanded him to be prince over his people, because thou hast not kept that which Jehovah commanded thee.
And David spoke to the men that stood by him, speaking: What shall be given to the man that shall kill this Philistine, and shall take away the reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the armies of the living God?
And the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together out of the cities of Gibeah, to go out to battle against the children of Israel.
Then the children of Israel came back from going after the Philistines, and took their goods from the tents.
that ye may approve things that are exalted; that ye may be spiritual and without offence till the day of Christ.
And over it the cherubim of glory forest-like the mercyseat; of which we cannot now speak particularly.
So all the men of Israel were gathered against the city, knit together as one man.
And Saul said, They have brought them from the Amalekites, because the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen, to sacrifice to Jehovah thy God; and the rest we have utterly destroyed.
And they said, No, we will take you and give you up into their hands, but truly we will not put you to death. So knotting two new cords round him they took him up from the rock.
and we are not of those drawing back to destruction, but of those believing to a preserving of soul.
and no one to himself doth take the honor, but he who is called by God, as also Aaron:
According to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt even to this day, in that they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so they also do to you.
And he had forty sons and thirty grandchildren, that rode on threescore and ten ass colts: and he judged Israel eight years.
having therefore, brethren, a confidence in the entrance into the holies by the blood of Christ;
And the Philistine said, I have put to shame the armies of Israel this day; give me a man so that we may have a fight together.
By faith Abraham, when he was been approved, offered Isaac: and he that had received the promises, offered up his only begotten son;
And ye shall make images of your hemorrhoids, and images of your mice that destroy the land, and give glory to the God of Israel: perhaps he will lighten his hand from off you, and from off your gods, and from off your land.
And Saul saith, `From Amalek they have brought them, because the people had pity on the best of the flock, and of the herd, in order to sacrifice to Jehovah thy God, and the remnant we have devoted.'
You have declared to-day how you have dealt well with me, because when Yahweh had delivered me up into your hand, you didn't kill me.
Then Samuel said to the people, "Yahweh is witness, who appointed Moses and Aaron, and who brought your ancestors up from the land of Egypt.
But his father and mother said to him, "Is there not a wife among the daughters of your relatives, or among all our people, that you must take a wife from the uncircumcised Philistines?" But Samson said to his father, "Take her for me because she pleases me."
Yahweh was with Judah; and drove out the inhabitants of the hill country; for he could not drive out the inhabitants of the valley, because they had chariots of iron.
Now Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel, were in the valley of Elah, fighting with the Philistines.
And Jerubbaal the son of Joash went and dwelt in his own house.
And Saul said to Ahiah, Bring hither the ark of God. For the ark of God was at that time with the children of Israel.
And the battle went sore against Saul, and the archers came up with him; and he was much terrified by the archers.
And let those who all their lives were in chains because of their fear of death, go free.
By faith Noah, being warned of God of things not seen as yet, moved with fear, prepared an ark to the saving of his house; by the which he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is by faith.
And he broke down the tower of Penuel, and slew the men of the city.
Riders on white asses -- Sitters on a long robe -- And walkers by the way -- meditate!
And they went off the road there with the purpose of stopping for the night in the hill: and he went in, seating himself in the street of the village, for no one took them into his house for the night.
And it was told Abimelech, that all the men of the tower of Shechem were gathered together.
Then said I: Behold, I come to do thy will, O God: he taketh away the first, that he may establish that which followeth.
And he said to them, "What I have done now in comparison with you? Are not the gleaning of Ephraim better than the grape harvest of Abiezer?
And when Yahweh raised leaders for them, Yahweh was with the leader, and he delivered them from the hand of their enemies all the days of the leader, for Yahweh was moved by their groaning because of their persecutors and oppressors.
Whenever they went out, the hand of Yahweh was against them to harm them, just as Yahweh warned, and righteous as Yahweh had sworn to them. And they were very distressed.
And Saul and the children of Israel being gathered together came to the valley of Terebinth, and they set the army in array to fight against the Philistines.
So David took the spear and the jar of water from near Saul's head, and they went away. No one saw, no one knoweth and no one awakened, for all of them were sleeping because a deep sleep of Yahweh had fallen upon them.
But to abide still in the flesh, is needful for you.
But after Israel was grown strong he made them tributaries, and would not destroy them.
And the man departed out of the city from Beth-lehem-judah to sojourn where he could find a place: and he came to the hill-country of Ephraim to the house of Micah, as he journeyed.
And Abigail went back to Nabal; and he was feasting in his house like a king; and Nabal's heart was full of joy, for he had taken much wine; so she said nothing to him till dawn came.
Brothers, take me as your example, and take note of those who are walking after the example we have given.
And Abimelech pursued him, and he fled before him, and there fell many wounded, as far as the entrance of the gate.
And he took his staff in his hand, and chose him five smooth stones out of the valley, and put them in the shepherd's bag that he had, into the pocket; and his sling was in his hand. And he drew near to the Philistine.
So the priest said, "The sword of Goliath the Philistine whom you killed in the valley of Elah is here, wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod. If you want to take it for yourself, then take it, for there is no other except it here." And David said, "There is none like it; give it to me."
Wherefore three thousand men of Joda, went down to the cave of the rock Etam, and said to Samson: Knowest thou not that the Philistines rule over us? Why wouldst thou do live? And he said to them: As they did to me, so have I done to them.
And when they who dwelt in the tower of Sichem had heard this, they went into the temple of their god Berith where they had made a covenant with him, and from thence the place had taken itself name, and it was exceeding strong.
I know both how to be abased, and I know how to exceedingly: everywhere and in all things I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need.
By faith also Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things that were going to happen.
who, existing in the form of God, did not consider being equal with God something to be grasped,
and you have forgotten the exhortation which reasons with you as with children, "My son, don't take easily the chastening of Jehovah, nor faint when you are reproved by him;
And it was that, when he turned his back to go away from Samuel, God gave him another heart; and all those signs came to pass that day.
And all the evil of the men of Shechem did God render upon their heads: and upon them came the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbaal.
As for those who at one time saw the light, tasting the good things from heaven, and having their part in the Holy Spirit,
For they and all their flocks came with their tents, and like locusts filled all places, an innumerable multitude of men, and of camels, desolation whatsoever they touched.
Therefore they learned of even Jehovah, space, Will the man yet come hither? And even Jehovah, answered, Behold, he hath hid himself among the baggage.
Abimelech was told that all the men of the tower of Shechem were gathered together.
What is the result? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is proclaimed, and in this I rejoice. But also I will exult;
And Jephthah saith to the elders of Gilead, `Have not ye hated me? and ye cast me out from the house of my father, and wherefore have ye come unto me now when ye are in distress?'
And Gedeon built there an altar to Jehovah, and called it the Lord's peace, until this present day. And when he was yet in Ephra, which is of the family of Ezri,
The children of Benjamin came out of Gibeah, and on that day destroyed twenty-two thousand of the man of Israel men down to the ground.
Samson went to Gaza, and saw there a prostitute, and went in to her.
And the woman cometh in unto Saul, and seeth that he hath been greatly troubled, and saith unto him, `Lo, thy maid-servant hath hearkened to thy voice, and I put my soul in my hand, and I obey thy words which thou hast spoken unto me;
And after the death of Gideon, the children of Israel again went after the gods of Canaan and were false to Jehovah, and made Baal-berith their god.
Now when the inhabitants of Jabes Galaad had heard all that the Philistines had done to Saul,
He said, "They were my brothers, the sons of my mother. As Yahweh lives, if you had kept them alive I would not kill you."
So and more also do God unto the enemies of David, if I leave of all that pertain to him by the morning light any that pisseth against the wall.
And God did so that night: for it was dry upon the fleece only, and there was dew on all the ground.
God off bearing, besides, witness with to , both by signs and wonders, and various acts of power, and distributions of Holy Spirit, according to his will?
and thus, having had long patience, he bought promise.
`Bear, I pray thee, with the transgression of thy handmaid, for Jehovah doth certainly make to my lord a stedfast house; for the battles of Jehovah hath my lord fought, and evil is not found in thee thy days.
And Samson took hold of the two middle pillars upon which the house stood, and on which it was borne up, of the one with his right hand, and of the other with his left.
But the one who did not trace his descent from them collected tithes from Abraham and blessed the one who had the promises.
And his concubine played the harlot against him, and went away from him unto her father's house to Bethlehemjudah, and was there four whole months.
Moreover he sprinkled the tabernacle and all the vessels of the ministry in the same way with the blood.
The stars from heaven were fighting; from their highways they were fighting against Sisera.
And her adversary provoked her much also, to make her fret, because Jehovah had shut up her womb.
And David, hearing that Nabal was dead, said, May Jehovah be praised, who hast taken up my cause against Nabal for the shame which he put on me, and hast kept back his servant from evil, and hast sent on Nabal's head the reward of his evil-doing. And David sent word to Abigail, desiring to take her as his wife.
For unto us also it hath been declared, in like manner as unto them. But the word of hearing did not profit them, not being mixed with faith of those things they heard.
For then he would have undergone a number of death from the time of the making of the world: but now he hast come to us at the end of the old order, to put away sin by the oblation of himself.
But when the judge was dead, they turned back, and dealt more corruptly than their fathers in following other gods to serve them, and to bow down to them. They didn't cease what they were doing, or give up their stubborn ways.
So Saul took the kingship over Israel, and he fought all around against his enemies, against Moab, against the children of Ammon, against Edom, against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines. He inflicted punishment against all who rebelled.
By faith Jacob dying blessed each of the sons of Joseph, and worshipped on the top of his staff.
And Shamgar son of Anath came after him, and he killed six hundred Philistines with the goad of an ox, he also delivered Israel.
that your rejoicing may abound in Christ Jesus for me, by my coming to you again.
And he had the tower of Penuel broken down and the men of the village put to death.
Ye have not yet resisted unto blood, striving against sin.
Jehovah forbid that I should stretch forth my hand against the Lord's anointed: but, I pray thee, take thou now the spear that is at his bolster, and the cruse of water, and let us go.
Know that our brother Timothy hast been freed, with whom, if he comes shortly, I will see you.
Say now in the ears of all the townsmen of Shechem, Is it better for you to be ruled by all the seventy sons of Jerubbaal or by one man only? And keep in mind that I am your bone and your flesh.
And the priest, answering David, said, I have no common bread here but there is holy bread; if only the young men have kept themselves from women.
And Saul said, They have brought them from the Amalekites: for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God; and the rest we have utterly destroyed.
And God hearkened to the voice of Manoah; and the angel of God came again unto the woman as she sat in the field; but Manoah her husband was not with her.
Then the children of Judah made an attack on Jerusalem, and took it, burning down the village after they had put itself people to the sword without mercy.
But a certain woman threw an upper millstone on Abimelech's head and cracked open his skull.
Wherefore consider, and think what thou hast to do: for evil is determined against thy husband, and against thy house, and he is a son fellow, so that no man can speak to him.
At that time they put about ten thousand men of Moab to the sword, every strong man and every man of war; not a man got away.
And David said to Ahimelech, Have you no sword or spear with you here? for I have come without my sword and other arms, because the king's business had to be done quickly.
And he said to her, "Stand at the doorway of the tent, and if anyone comes and asks you, and says, 'Is there anyone here?' You must answer, 'No.'"
And Jehovah came and stood; and he called, as he had called the other times: Samuel, Samuel. And Samuel said: Speak, Jehovah, for thy servant heareth.
David had also taken Ahinoam from Jezreel, and both of them became his wives.
And David's men said to him, Now is the time when Jehovah says to you, I will give up your hater into your hands to do with him whatever seems good to you. Then David, getting up, took the skirt of Saul's robe in his hand, noontide the end of it without his knowledge.
There went therefore of the family of Dan, to wit, from Saraa and Esthaol, six hundred men, filled with arms for war,
And the Gileadites took the passages of the Jordan before Ephraimites: and it was so, that, when those Ephraim which were escaped said, Let me go over; that the men of Gilead said unto him, Art thou an Ephraimite? If he said, Nay;
The men of the city said to him on the seventh day before the sun went down, "What is sweeter than honey? What is stronger than a lion?" He said to them, "If you hadn't plowed with my heifer; you wouldn't have found out my riddle."
by which will we have been sanctified through the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
When Israel lived in Heshbon and itself villages, and in Aroer and itself villages, and in all the towns that are along the of the Arnon, for three hundred years, why did you not recover them at that time?
And the priest said to them, Go in peace: before even Jehovah, is your way on which ye go.
And Jehovah was with Judah; and he took the hill-country for his heritage; but he was unable to make the people of the valley go out, for they had war-carriages of iron.
Ephraim didn't drive out the Canaanite who lived in Gezer, but the Canaanites lived in Gezer among them.
Now there were among the people of Jabesh-gilead four hundred young virgins who had never had sex relations with a man; these they took to their tents in Shiloh in the land of Canaan.
And I -- I have not sinned against thee, and thou art doing with me evil -- to fight against me. Jehovah, the Judge, doth judge to-day between the sons of Israel and the sons of Ammon.'
And when the boy came to the place where the arrow was, Jonathan, crying out after the boy, said, Has it not gone past you?
And Jehovah himself hast done what I said: Jehovah hast taken the kingdom out of your hand and given it to your neighbor David;
And when they came to Gibeah, a band of prophets came face to face with him; and the Spirit of God came on him with power and he took his place among them as a prophet.
and why hast thou not hearkened to the voice of Jehovah -- and dost fly unto the spoil, and dost do the evil thing in the eyes of Jehovah?'
and ye to-day have rejected your God, who Himself your saviour out of all your evils and your distresses, and ye say, `Nay, but -- a king thou dost set over us; and now, station yourselves before Jehovah, by your tribes, and by your thousands.'
And the elders of Jabesh said to him, Allow us seven days, and we will send messengers into all the districts of Israel; and if there be no man to deliver us, we will come out to thee.
And the sons of Saul, were Jonathan, and Jessui, and Melchisua: and the names of his two daughters, the name of the first-born was Merob, and the name of the younger Michol.
Righteous as he remembered the ark of God, he fell from his chair backwards against the side of the gate. He broke his neck and died, because the man was old and heavy. He had judged Israel forty years.
And when he had taken him down, they saw them all, seated about on all sides, feasting and drinking among all the mass of goods which they had taken from the land of the Philistines and the land of Judah.
And she wept before him the seven days, while their feast lasted: and it came to pass on the seventh day, that he told her, because she lay sore upon him: and she told the riddle to the children of her people.
For by one offering he hast perfected in perpetuity the sanctified.
And it was told Saul that David had come to Keilah. Then Saul said, God hast cast him off into my hand; for he is shut in, by entering into a city that hast gates and bars.
May the Lord's punishment be on Jonathan, if it is my father's pleasure to do you evil and I do not give you word of it and send you away so that you may go in peace: and may Jehovah be with you, as he hast been with my father.
But surely I count also all things to be loss on account of the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, on account of whom I have suffered the loss of all, and count them to be filth, that I may gain Christ;
The cows took the straight way by the way to Beth Shemesh. They went along the highway, lowing as they went, and didn't turn aside to the right hand or to the left; and the lords of the Philistines went after them to the border of Beth Shemesh.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
And his father and his mother did not know that it was of Jehovah, that he was seeking an occasion against the Philistines. Now at that time the Philistines were ruleth over Israel.
So he changed his behavior before them and pretended to be mad in their presence. He made scratches on the doors of the gate and let his saliva run down into his beard.
And that were in Rachal, and that were in the cities of Jerameel, and that were in the cities of Ceni,
And as David returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistine in his hand.
For our God is a devouring fire.
Then Jonathan said, Now we will go over to these men and let them see us.
Kings came -- they fought; Then fought kings of Canaan, In Taanach, by the waters of Megiddo; Gain of money they took not!
Why do you sit among the sheepfolds, to hear the calling sounds of the herds? For the clans of Reuben, there were great searchings of heart.
nor yet that he should offer himself often, as the high priest entereth into the holy place every year with blood of others;
And Saul said, I have sinned: return, my son David; for I will no more do thee harm, because my life was precious in thine eyes this day: behold, I have acted foolishly, and have erred exceedingly.
And when the men of Israel that were on this side of the valley, and that were on this side of the Jordan, saw that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook the cities and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
And it came to pass at that time, when Eli lay in his place (now his eyes began to grow dim, he could not see),
And Saul said to Samuel, Great is my sin: for I have gone against the orders of Jehovah and against your words: because, fearing the people, I did what they said.
But the angel of Yahweh said to him, "Why do you ask my name? It is too wonderful."
For both the one who sanctifies and the ones who are sanctified are all from one, for which reason he is not ashamed to call them brothers,
And Saul built an altar to Jehovah and he then first began to build an altar to Jehovah.
And Hannah hath not gone up, for she said to her husband, `Till the youth is weaned -- then I have brought him in, and he hath appeared before the face of Jehovah, and dwelt there -- unto the age.'
Furthermore we have had fathers of our flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence: shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits, and live?
And the bearer of his weapons saith to him, `Do all that in thy heart; turn for thee; lo, I with thee, as thine own heart.'
But David was loved by all Israel and Judah, for he went out and came in before them.
Be careful for nothing; but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known unto God.
And I will make a true priest for myself, one who will do what is in my heart and in my mind; and I will make for him a family which will not come to an end, and his place will be before my holy one for ever.
And I beseech you, brethren, that you suffer this word of consolation. For I have written to you in a few words.
Then the woman came and told her husband, saying, "A man of God came to me, and his face was like the face of the angel of God, very awesome; and I didn't ask him where he was from, neither did he tell me his name;
Deal kindly then with thy servant; for thou hast brought thy servant into a covenant of Jehovah with thee; but if there be in me iniquity, slay me thyself; for why shouldest thou bring me to thy father?
All the saints salute you, especially those who are of Caesar's household.
By faith they passed through the Red Sea as by dry land: which the Egyptians assaying to do were drowned.
Follow after peace with all men, and the sanctification without which no man will see Jehovah,
and Jair dieth, and is buried in Kamon.
And when the five lords of the Philistines had seen it, they returned to Ekron the same day.
So God subdued on that day Jabin the king of Canaan before the children of Israel.
David's two wives were taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal of Nabal the Carmelite.
Kish was the father of Saul; and Ner the father of Abner was the son of Abiel.
and would thrust it into the baking-pan or into the kettle or into the cauldron or into the cooking pot. All that the food fork brought up the priest would take for himself. This is what they used to do to all of Israel who came there at Shiloh.
And they put his armor in the temple of Astaroth, but his body they hung on the wall of Bethsan.
and all the people say unto Samuel, `Pray for thy servants unto Jehovah thy God, and we do not die, for we have added to all our sins evil to ask for us a king.'
And from there David went to Mizpeh in the land of Moab: and he said to the king of Moab, Let my father and mother come and make their living-place with you till it is clear to me what God will do for me.
When the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead heard what the Philistines had done to Saul,
And Gad the prophet saith unto David, `Thou dost not abide in a fortress, go, and thou hast entered for thee the land of Judah;' and David goeth and entereth the forest of Hareth.
make you complete in every good work to do his will, working in you that which is well pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
Beware of the dogs, beware of the evil workers, beware of the mutilation.
So David recovered all that Amalekite had taken; David also rescued his two wives.
And there was at that time Debbora a prophetess the wife of Lapidoth, who judged the people,
From the cities the descendants of Benjamin were counted on that day twenty-six thousand sword-wielding men, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, who were counted seven hundred well-trained men.
and, `Thou, at the beginning, Lord, the earth didst found, and a work of thy hands are the heavens;
And Samuel died; and all Israel were gathered together, and lamented him; and they buried him in his house at Ramah. And David arose and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
But remember the former days, in who, after you were enlightened, you endured a great struggle with sufferings;
Then Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and chief over them. Jephthah spoke all his words before Yahweh in Mizpah.
Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight; but all things are naked and opened unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do.
Now I have heard that you have shearers. Your shepherds have now been with us, and we didn't harm them, neither was there anything missing from them, all the while they were in Carmel.
And it cometh to pass, when he hath finished to bring near the present, that he sendeth away the people bearing the present,
and the hand of Midian is strong against Israel, from the presence of Midian have the sons of Israel made for themselves the flowings which in the mountains, and the caves, and the strongholds.
And Gideon said to God, "Do not let your anger burn against me; let me speak once more. Please let me test once more with the fleece; let the fleece be dry, and let there be dew on the ground."
So they set up for themselves Micah's engraved image which he made, and it remained all the time that God's house was in Shiloh.
In many parts, and many ways, God of old having spoken to the fathers in the prophets,
The people were counted, and no one was there from the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead.
The elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, "Therefore we have turned again to you now, that you may go with us, and fight with the children of Ammon. You will be our head over all the inhabitants of Gilead."
If there be therefore any comfort in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any society of the spirit, if any bowels of commiseration:
And he said, Go then. So he sent her away for two months; and she went with her friends to the mountains, weeping for her sad fate.
Let us therefore draw near with boldness to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy, and may find favor for help in time of need.
and all Israel go down to the Philistines, to sharpen each his ploughshare, and his coulter, and his axe, and his mattock;
Others were tried by mocking and scourging, yes, moreover by bonds and imprisonment.
The men of Israel were gathered together out of Naphtali, and out of Asher, and out of all Manasseh, and pursued Midian.
Then Saul said to Jonathan, "Tell me what you have done!" Jonathan told him, and said, "I certainly did taste a little honey with the end of the rod that was in my hand; and behold, I must die."
But strong food belongeth to them that are of full age, even those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil.
And when the people came back to their tents, the responsible men of Israel said, Why hast Jehovah let the Philistines overcome us today? Let us get the ark of the Lord's agreement here from Shiloh, so that it may be with us and give us salvation from the hands of those who are against us.
And it cometh to pass, when Gideon dead, that the sons of Israel turn back and go a-whoring after the the Baalim, and set over them Baal-Berith for a god;
Called of God a high priest after the order of Melchisedec.
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah strengthened Eglon the king of Moab against Israel, because they did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah.
and he strippeth off -- he also -- his garments, and prophesieth -- he also -- before Samuel, and falleth down naked all that day and all the night; therefore they say, `Is Saul also among the prophets?'
saying, This is the blood of the covenant which God hath enjoined unto you.
And the cook took up the shoulder, and what was on it, and set before Saul. And he said, Behold, that which hast been reserved! set it before thee, eat; for against the set time hast it been kept for thee, since I said, I will invite the people. So Saul ate with Samuel that day.
And now, by all the desire of thy soul, O king, to come down, come down, and ours to shut him up into the hand of the king.'
And he said unto them, What have I done now in comparison with you? Are not the gleaning of Ephraim better than the vintage of Abi-ezer?
Saul reigned one year, and when he had reigned two years over Israel,
Yea, before they burnt the fat, the priest's servant came, and said to the man who sacrificed, "Give food to roast for the priest; for he will not accept boiled food from you, but raw."
The servants of Achish said to him, "Isn't this David the king of the land? Didn't they sing to one another about him in dances, saying, 'Saul hast slain his thousands, David his ten thousands?'"
And his fellow answered and said, This is nothing else save the sword of Gideon the son of Joash, the man of Israel: God hath given into his hand Midian and all the host.
And they said unto the messengers that came, Thus shall ye say unto the men of Jabesh-gilead, To-morrow, by that time the sun be hot, ye shall have help. And the messengers came and showed it to the men of Jabesh; and they were glad.
and the Asherites dwelt among the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land; for they did not dispossess them.
Now consider how great this was, to whom the patriarch Abraham gave a tenth out of the spoils.
And for the third time Jehovah said Samuel's name. And he bought up and went to Eli and said, Here am I; for you certainly said my name. Then it was clear to Eli that the voice which had said the child's name was the Lord's.
By faith Abraham, being called, did obey, to go forth to the place that he was about to receive for an inheritance, and he went forth, not knowing whither he doth go;
And the men of the garrison answered Jonathan and his armour-bearer and said, Come up to us, and we will show you something. And Jonathan said to his armour-bearer, Come up after me; for even Jehovah, hast delivered them into the hand of Israel.
And the sons of Israel turn aside the the Baalim and Ashtaroth, and serve Jehovah alone;
And I took my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent her throughout all the country of the inheritance of Israel; for they have committed lewdness and folly in Israel.
And Manoah riseth, and goeth after his wife, and cometh unto the man, and saith to him, `Art thou the man who spake unto the woman?' and he saith, `I .'
And the king sat on his throne, as at the other times, on the seat by the wall; and Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul's side, and David's place was empty.
So Delilah took new thick cords, knotting them tightly round him, and said to him, The Philistines are on you, Samson. And men were waiting secretly in the inner place. And the cords were broken off his arms like threads.
Out of Ephraim was there a root of them against Amalek; after thee, Benjamin, among thy people; out of Machir came down deputies, and out of Zebulun they that handle the pen of the writer.
And carry these ten cheeses unto the captain of their thousand, and look how thy brethren fare, and take their pledge.
And Jerubbaal, the son of Joash, went back to his house and was living there.
but when they came up from Egypt, and Israel went through the wilderness to the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh;
And no creature is hidden in the sight of him, but all things are naked and laid bare to the eyes of him to whom we must give our account.
for forty years. Therefore I was angry with this generation, and I said, 'They always go astray in their heart, and they do not know my ways.'
And even Jehovah, saith unto Gideon, `By the three hundred men who are lapping I save you, and have given Midian into thy hand, and all the people go, each to his place.'
And he said to her: What form is he yourselves? And she said: An old man cometh up, and he is covered with a robe. And Saul understood that it was Samuel, and he bowed himself with his face to the ground, and adored.
The Philistine said to David, "Come to me, and I will give your flesh to the birds of the sky, and to the animals of the field."
Then Samuel said to all the people, "Do you see him whom Yahweh hast chosen? For there is no one like him among all the people!" And all the people shouted and said, "Long live the king!"
And the five lords of the Philistines, having seen it, went back to Ekron the same day.
She said, "The Philistines are upon you, Samson!" He awoke out of his sleep, and said, "I will go out as at the other times, and shake myself free." But he didn't know that Yahweh had departed from him.
Then you will go down before me to Gilgal. Look, I am coming down to you to offer burnt-offerings and to make fellowship offerings. You must wait seven days until I come to you. Then I will let you know what you should do."
And he turned from him toward another, and spake after the same ordinance; and the people answered him again after the former manner.
For we are the circumcision, the ones who worship by the Spirit of God and boast in Christ Jesus and do not put confidence in the flesh,
thus doth Jehovah do to Jonathan, and thus doth He add; when the evil concerning thee is good to my father, then I have uncovered thine ear, and sent thee away, and thou hast gone in peace, and even Jehovah, is with thee, as he was with my father;
saying, `This the blood of the covenant that God enjoined unto you,'
And the Levite said he would make his living-place with the man, and he became to him as one of his sons.
And David smiteth them from the twilight even unto the evening of the morrow, and there hath not escaped of them a man, except four hundred young men who have ridden on the camels, and are fled.
But the men were not willing to listen to him, and the man seized his concubine and brought her out to them; and they had intercourse with her, and they abused her all night until the morning; they let her go at the approach of dawn.
And as he talked with them, that baseborn man whose name was Goliath, the Philistine, of Geth, showed himself coming up from the camp of the Philistines: and he spoke according to the same words, and David heard them.
another company turned the way to Beth Horon; and another company turned the way of the border that looks down on the valley of Zeboim toward the wilderness.
And when their fathers and their brethren shall come, and shall begin to complain against you, and to chide, we will say to them: Have pity on them for they took them not away as by the right of war or conquest, but when they asked to have them, you gave them not, and the fault was committed on your portion.
But I hope in Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you shortly, that *I* also may be refreshed, knowing how ye get on.
The men of Shechem set an ambush for him on the tops of the mountains, and they robbed all who came along that way by them, and Abimelech was told about it.
But Nabal answering the servants of David, said: Who is David? and what is the son of Isai? servants are multiplied now a days who flee from their masters.
And it came to pass, when she came to him, that she moved him to ask of her father a field: and she alighted from off her ass; and Caleb said unto her, What wouldest thou?
And someone does not take for himself the honor, but is called by God, just as Aaron also was.
For God making promise to Abraham, because he had no one greater through whom he might swear, swore by himself,
Now Hannah spoke in her heart. Only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard. Therefore Eli thought she was drunk.
Also the Strength of Israel will not lie nor repent; for he is not a man, that he should repent."
And the children of Israel came near against the children of Benjamin the second day.
And when the Azotians arose early the next day, behold Dagon lay upon his face on the ground before the ark of Jehovah: and they took Dagon, and set him again in its place.
So they went through the hill-country of Ephraim and through the land of Shalishah, but they saw no sign of them: then they went through the land of Shaalim, but they were not there: and they went through the land of the Benjamites, but they did not come across them.
And have tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the world to come,
And the children of Israel served Eglon the king of Moab eighteen years.
And the king said to the couriers that stood about him, Turn and put the priests of Jehovah to death; because their hand also is with David, and because they knew when he fled, and did not shall teach me. But the servants of the king were not willing to put forth their hand to fall on the priests of Jehovah.
Then said Jonathan, My father hath troubled the land: see, I pray you, how mine eyes have been enlightened, because I tasted a little of this honey.
And an angel of Jehovah appeared to her, and said: Thou art barren and without children: but thou shalt conceive and bear a son.
All the people said to Samuel, "Pray for your servants to Yahweh your God, that we not die; for we have added to all our sins this evil, to ask for a king."
being confident of this very thing, that he who hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ:
And Jehovah visited Hannah, so that she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters. And the child Samuel grew before Jehovah.
And he went down, and talked with the woman; and she pleased Samson well.
where Jesus, the forerunner for us, entered, because he became a high priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek.
Saul said to Samuel, "I have sinned; for I have transgressed the commandment of Yahweh, and your words, because I feared the people, and obeyed their voice.
But what things were to me gains, these I have counted, because of the Christ, loss;
And Michol took an image and laid it on the bed, and put a goat's skin with the hair at the head of it, and covered it with clothes.
To-morrow about this time I will send thee a man out of the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him prince over my people Israel; and he will save my people out of the hand of the Philistines; for I have looked upon my people, because their cry is come unto me.
And Jehovah raised up judges, to deliver them from the hands of those that oppressed them: but they would not hearken to them,
And Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, Let me, I pray thee, pass through thy land; but the king of Edom would not hearken. And they also sent to the king of Moab; and he would not. And Israel abode in Kadesh.
So David bought up and crossed over, he and the six hundred men who were with him, to Achish the son of Maoch, the king of Gath.
And the three hundred blew the trumpets, and Jehovah set every man's sword against his fellow, even throughout all the host: and the host fled to Bethshittah in Zererath, and to the border of Abelmeholah, unto Tabbath.
Samson took hold of the two middle pillars on which the house rested, and leaned on them, the one with his right hand, and the other with his left.
and the servants of Saul say unto him, `Lo, we pray thee, a spirit of sadness God is terrifying thee;
And Saul, answering him, said, He gave us word that the asses had come back. But he said nothing to him of Samuel's words about the kingdom.
Then the men of Israel were marching out for the battle against Benjamin, and the men of Israel took up positions against them for battle at Gibeah.
And as for me, far be it from me that I should sin against Yahweh by ceasing to pray for you! I will instruct you in the good and righteous way.
And he said to David, Thou art more righteous than I: for thou hast rewarded me good, whereas I have rewarded thee evil.
and the wife of Gilead beareth to him sons, and the wife's sons grow up and cast out Jephthah, and say to him, `Thou dost not inherit in the house of our father; for son of another woman thou.'
And David received at her hand all that she had brought him, and said to her: Go in peace into thy house, behold, I have heard thy voice, and have honored thy face.
Therefore David consulted Jehovah again. And he answered and said to him: Arise, and go to Ceila: for I will deliver the Philistines into thy hand.
And the angel answered him: If thou winepress me, I will not eat of thy bread: but if thou wilt offer a holocaust, offer it to Jehovah. And Manue knew not it was the angel of Jehovah.
And David came to Nob, to Ahimelech the priest; and Ahimelech trembled at meeting David, and said to him, Why art thou alone, and no man with thee?
Again Israel trusting in their strength and their number, set their army in array in the same place, where they had fought before:
And the vine said unto them, Should I leave my wine, which cheereth God and man, and go to be promoted over the trees?
For who, when they heard it, were disobedient? Surely it was not all who went out from Egypt through Moses?
And Judah went up; and Jehovah delivered the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hand; and they slew of them in Bezek ten thousand men.
Then Jonathan said, "My father hast brought trouble on the land! See now that my eyes have brightened because I have tasted a little of this honey.
And Jehovah visited Anna, and she conceived, and bore three sons and two daughters: and the child Samuel became great before Jehovah.
For I know that this will turn out to my salvation, through your supplication and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
So that with good courage we say, "The Lord is my helper. I will not fear. What can man do to me?"
For as long as the son of Jesse is alive on the earth, you and your kingdom will not be established! So then, send and bring him to me, for he will surely die!"
And Adoni-Bezek fled, and they pursued after him, and seized him, and cut off his thumb and his great toes.
And the men of Israel returned to the descendants of Benjamin, and they put them to the edge of the sword, both the inhabitants of city and the animals that were found; they also set on fire all the cities that they found.
By faith Moses, having been born, was hid three months by his parents, because they saw the child seemly, and were not afraid of the decree of the king;
and saith, `I cause you to come up out of Egypt, and bring you in unto the land which I have sworn to your fathers, and say, I do not break My covenant with you to the age; and ye -- ye make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land -- their altars ye break down; and ye have not hearkened to My voice -- what this ye have done?
And Saul smote Amalek from Havilah as thou goest toward Shur which is opposite to Egypt.
And it came to pass when Gideon was dead, that the children of Israel turned again, and played the harlot after the Baals, and set up Baal-Berith as their god.
So he brought down the people unto the water: and Jehovah said unto Gideon, Every one that lappeth of the water with his tongue, as a dog lappeth, him shalt thou set by himself; likewise every one that is bowed down upon his knees to drink.
Jerub-Baal son of Joash lived in his own house.
Therefore my dear friends, just as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling.
And Naas the Ammonite answered them: On this condition will I make a covenant with you, that I may pluck out all your right eyes, and make you a reproach in all Israel.
Now I press upon you, brothers, bear with my word of exhortation, for indeed I have written to you briefly.
And the sons of Israel say unto Jehovah, `We have sinned, do Thou to us according to all that is good in Thine eyes; only deliver us, we pray Thee, this day.'
where Jesus is entered as forerunner for us, become for ever a high priest according to the ordinance of Melchisedec.
Now they told David, "Look, the Philistines are fighting in Keilah and they are raiding the threshing floors."
Eighteen thousand men of Benjamin came to their death, all strong men of war.
And after him, Ibzan of Beth-lehem was judge of Israel.
But ye are come unto mount Zion, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to a innumerable company of angels,
And Saul learned of Jehovah; but Jehovah did not answer him, either by dreams, or by Urim, or by prophets.
And his lord saith unto him, `Let us not turn aside unto the city of a stranger, that is not of the sons of Israel, thither, but we have passed over unto Gibeah.'
The Philistines were stationed on the mountain on one side and Israel on the mountain on the other side: and there was a valley between them.
Then they rose early in the morning and worshiped before Yahweh and returned to their house at Ramah. Then Elkanah had sexual relations with Hannah his wife, and Yahweh remembered her.
And the men of Israel went out to battle against Benjamin: and the men of Israel put themselves in array to fight against them at Gibeah.
May Yahweh therefore be judge, and give sentence between me and you and see, and plead my cause, and deliver me out of your hand."
Samson said to her, "If they bind me with seven green cords that were never dried up, then shall I become weak, and be as another man."
She may not eat of anything that cometh of the vine, neither let her drink wine or strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing; all that I commanded her let her observe.
brethren, I do not reckon myself to have laid hold; and one thing -- the things behind indeed forgetting, and to the things before thou stretchest forth --
Then said David to the Philistine, Thou comest to me with a sword, and with a spear, and with a shield: but I come to thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied.
And Israel sent messengers to Sihon king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon, and Israel said to him, Let us pass, we pray thee, through thy land unto my place.
Zebulun hath not dispossessed the inhabitants of Kitron, and the inhabitants of Nahalol, and the Canaanite dwelleth in itself midst, and they become tributary.
Then he himself went to Ramah, and came to the great water-spring in Secu; and questioning the people he said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, They are at Naioth in Ramah.
And they see -- the men of Israel, who beyond the valley, and who beyond the the Jordan -- that the men of Israel have fled, and that Saul and his sons have died, and they forsake the cities and flee, and Philistines come in, and dwell in them.
So they put away the foreign gods from among them, and became the Lord's servants; and his soul was angry because of the cords of Israel.
And when they were come down from the high place into the city, Samuel communed with Saul upon the top of the house.
by so much of a better covenant hath Jesus become truth,
Then he made him that remaineth have dominion over the nobles among the people; Jehovah made me have dominion over the mighty.
And so we see that they were not able to enter because of unbelief.
saying, Our family is making an offering in the village, and my brothers have given me orders to be there: so now, if I have favor in your eyes, let me go away and see my brothers. This is why he hast not come to the king's table.
And Jonathan again made David swear an oath, because he loved him; for with the love of his soul he loved him.
They went up and encamped in Kiriath Jearim, in Judah. Therefore they called that place Mahaneh Dan, to this day. Behold, it is behind Kiriath Jearim.
And there remained of all the number of Benjamin only six hundred men that were able to escape, and flee to the wilderness: and they abode in the rock Remmon four months.
And here dying men receive tithes; but there of whom the witness is that he lives;
By faith also, with Sarah, he received the ability to procreate even past the normal age, because he regarded the one who had promised to be trustworthy.
They cried to Yahweh, and said, 'We have sinned, because we have forsaken Yahweh, and have served the Baals and the Ashtaroth: but now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve you.'
Therefore on that day he called him Jerubbaal, saying, Let Baal plead against him, because he hath thrown down his altar.
For we know him who said, "Vengeance belongs to me," says Jehovah, "I will repay." Again, "The Lord will judge his people."
Rejoice in Lord always: again I will say, Rejoice.
He will take the tenth of your sheep. And ye shall be his servants.
And when he was come into his house, he took the knife, and laid hold on his concubine, and divided her, according to her bones, into twelve pieces, and sent her into all the borders of Israel.
having chosen rather to be afflicted with the people of God, than to have sin's pleasure for a season,
Him then I am hoping to send as quickly as possible, when I am able to see how things will go for me:
Forsaking him, and serving Baal and Astaroth.
And in all his undertakings David did wisely; and Jehovah was with him.
and he said to him, "Thus says Jephthah, 'Israel did not take the land of Moab or the land of the children of Ammon,
This day Yahweh will deliver you into my hand, and I will strike you down and cut off your head! then I will give the corpses of the army of the Philistines this day to the birds of heaven and to the animals of the earth, so that all the earth may know that there is a God who is for Israel.
And the sons of Heli were children fellow, not knowing Jehovah,
I pray thee, forgive the transgression of thy handmaid; for Jehovah will certainly make my lord a sure house; because my lord fighteth the battles of Jehovah, and evil hath not been found in thee all thy days.
just as it is right for me to think this about all of you, because I have you in my heart, since both in my imprisonment and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel all of you sharers of grace with me.
And David spake and said to Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, Joab's brother, saying, Who will go down with me to Saul to the camp? And Abishai said, I will go down with thee.
And the trees said to the fig tree, Come thou, and reign over us.
And all Israel did hear, saying, "Saul hast defeated the garrison of the Philistines; and also, Israel hast become a stench among the Philistines!" So the people were called out after Saul at Gilgal.
Then Saul said to his armourbearer: Draw thy sword, and kill me: lest these uncircumcised come, and slay me, and mock at me. And his armorbearer would not: for he was struck with exceeding great fear. Then Saul took his sword, and fell upon it.
And Micah consecrateth the hand of the Levite, and the young man is to him for a priest, and he is in the house of Micah,
Saul said to his servants who stood around him, "Hear now, you Benjamites! Will the son of Jesse give everyone of you fields and vineyards? Will he make you all captains of thousands and captains of hundreds,
and choose him out of all the tribes of Israel, to be my priest, to offer upon mine altar, to burn incense, to wear the ephod before me? and I gave unto the house of thy father all the offerings by fire of the children of Israel.
Asher did not take possession of Accho, nor the inhabitants of Sidon, nor Ahlab, nor Achzib, nor Helbah, nor Aphik, nor Rehob;
If he be able to fight with me, and kill me, we will be servants to you: but if I prevail against him, and kill him, you shall be servants, and shall serve us.
and he took it out in his hands, and went on, and ate as he went. And he came to his father and his mother, and gave them, and they ate; but he did not tell them that he had taken the honey out of the carcass of the lion.
And they told Saul, saying, Behold, the people sin against Jehovah, in that they eat with the blood. And he said, Ye have acted perversely: roll me now a great stone.
And all this assembly shall know, that Jehovah saveth not with sword and spear, for it is his battle, and he will deliver you into our hands.
And Ehud escaped while they tarried, and passed beyond the quarries, and escaped unto Seirath.
And the five men go, and come in to Laish, and see the people that in itself midst, dwelling confidently, according to the custom of Sidonians, quiet and confident; and there is none putting to shame in the land in thing, possessing restraint, and they far off from the Sidonians, and have no word with man.
For God is my witness, that I long for all of you with the affection of Christ Jesus.
So God repaid the wickedness that Abimelech committed against his father by killing his seventy brothers.
Then Gideon took ten men of his servants, and did as Yahweh had spoken to him. Because he feared his father's household and the men of the city, he could not do it by day, but he did it by night.
As soon as you enter the village, you will find him, before he goes up to the high place to eat. For the people will not eat until he comes, because he must bless the sacrifice. Then afterward the invited guests will eat. So then, go up, because you will find him today!"
So turning back from going after David, Saul went against the Philistines. so that place was named Sela-hammah-lekoth.
But Adoni-Bezek fled. They pursued him, caught him, and cut off his thumb and his big toes.
Salute all of your leaders and all the saints. The Italians salute you.
And more than this, Jehovah will give Israel up with you into the hands of the Philistines; and tomorrow you and your sons will be with me: and Jehovah will give up the army of Israel into the hands of the Philistines.
And the man goeth out of the city, out of Beth-Lehem-Judah, to sojourn where he doth find, and cometh to the hill-country of Ephraim, unto the house of Micah, to work his way.
But I am hoping in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you before long, so that I may be comforted when I have news of you.
And David arose and fled that day from the face of Saul: and came to Achis the king of Geth:
Then Jonathan said to David, To-morrow is the new moon: and thou shalt be missed, because thy seat will be empty.
And it was told to Saul, "David is in Naioth in Ramah."
Two of David's wives had been taken captive. Ahinoam from Jezreel and Abigail, the wife of Nabal of Nabal the Carmelite.
So all the people went to Gilgal, and there in Gilgal they made Saul king before Jehovah; and peace-offerings were offered before Jehovah; and there Saul and all the men of Israel were glad with great joy.
Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said to him, "You are blessed by Yahweh! I have performed the commandment of Yahweh."
David went out whenever Saul sent him, and he succeeded. So Saul appointed him over the men of war, and it pleased all the people and even pleased the servants of Saul.
Eliab his oldest brother heard when he spoke to the men; and Eliab's anger burned against David, and he said, "Why have you come down? With whom have you left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know your pride, and the naughtiness of your heart; for you have come down that you might see the battle."
And all the men of Israel have risen from their place, and arrange themselves at Baal-Tamar, and the ambush of Israel is coming forth out of itself place, out of the meadow of Gibeah.
And he sent, and brought him in. Now he was ruddy, and withal of a beautiful countenance, and goodly to look upon. And Jehovah said, Arise, anoint him: for this is he.
But now they aspire to a better land, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed of them, to be called their God, for he hast prepared for them a city.
But Hannah went not up; for she said unto her husband, I will not go up until the child be weaned, and then I will bring him, that he may appear before Jehovah, and there abide for ever.
lo, I am placing the fleece of wool in the threshing-floor: if dew is on the fleece alone, and on all the earth drought -- then I know that Thou dost save Israel by my hand, as Thou hast spoken;'
So now, if you have done truly and uprightly in making Abimelech king, and if you have done well to Jerubbaal and his house in reward for the work of his hands:
And the king saith to her, `Do not fear; for what hast thou seen?' and the woman saith unto Saul, `Gods I have seen coming up out of the earth.'
Why have you kicked away my victims, and my gifts which I commanded to be offered in the temple: and thou hast rather honored thy sons than me, to eat the first-fruits of every sacrifice of my people Israel?
For surely that our Lord is a descendant of Judah, a tribe with reference to which Moses said nothing concerning priests.
And the woman beareth a son, and calleth his name Samson, and the youth groweth, and Jehovah doth bless him,
For the law having a shadow of good things to come, and not the very image of the things, can never with those sacrifices which they offered year by year continually make the comers thereunto perfect?
But Saul said, There shall not a man be put to death this day; for to-day even Jehovah, hast wrought deliverance in Israel.
So that, taking courage, we may say, Jehovah my helper, and I will not be afraid: what will man do unto me?
And the man said to Eli, I have come from the army and have come in flight to-day from the fight. And he said, How did it go, my son?
`Therefore -- the affirmation of Jehovah, God of Israel -- I certainly said, Thy house and the house of thy father, do walk up and down before Me to the age; and now -- the affirmation of even Jehovah, -- Far be it from Me! for he who is honouring Me, I honor, and those despising Me, are easily esteemed.
Wherefore, as the Holy Spirit saith, `To-day, if His voice ye may hear --
So that it became clear through all the Praetorium, and to all the rest, that I was a prisoner on account of Christ;
Anyone who rejected the law of Moses dies without mercy on the testimony of two or three witnesses.
And Jonathan and David made a covenant, because he loved him as his own soul.
He rose up and followed his wife: and coming to the man, said to him: Art thou he that spoke to the woman? And he answered: I am.
Then come down, thou, the remnant of nobles, [as his] people; Jehovah! come down with me in the midst of the mighty ones.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared to the woman, and said to her, Behold now, thou art barren and bearest not; but thou shalt conceive and bear a son.
And David said to himself, Some day death will come to me by the hand of Saul: the only thing for me to do is to get away into the land of the Philistines; then Saul will give up hope of taking me in any part of the land of Israel: and so I may be able to get away from him.
And his brethren came down, and all the house of his father, and took him, and brought him up, and buried him between Zoreah and Eshtaol in the sepulchre of Manoah his father. And he had judged Israel twenty years.
being stedfast to Him who did appoint him, as also Moses in all his house,
Then it was said to Saul, See, the peoples are sinning against Jehovah, taking the blood with the flesh. And he said to those who gave him the news, Now let a great stone be rolled to me here.
And Saul spake to Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that they should kill David.
Both the lion and the bear hath thy servant smitten, and this uncircumcised Philistine hath been as one of them, for he hath defied the ranks of the living God.'
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, Did not I deliver you from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
And Saul was very wroth, and the saying displeased him; and he said, They have ascribed unto David ten thousands, and to me they have ascribed but of thousands, and what can he have more but the kingdom?
let's draw near with a true heart in fullness of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and having our body washed with pure water,
and this to thee the sign that cometh unto thy two sons, unto Hophni and Phinehas -- in one day they die both of them;
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Manoah, Though thou detain me, I will not eat of thy bread: and if thou wilt offer a burnt-offering, thou must offer it unto Jehovah. For Manoah knew not that he was an angel of Jehovah.
And they called the name of the city Dan, after Dan their ancestor, who was born to Israel: but the former name of the city was Laish.
And the people were moved with pity for Benjamin, because Jehovah had let his wrath loose on the tribes of Israel.
if somehow I may attain to the resurrection from the dead.
Then you will go on from there and further you will come to the oak of Tabor. There three men will meet you, who are ascent to God at Beth-el. One will be carrying three male male goats, one will be carrying three loaves of bread, and one will be carrying a skin of wine.
And Samson said to them: I will propose to you a riddle, which if you declare unto me within the seven days of the feast, I will give you thirty shirts, and as many coats:
David heard in the wilderness that Nabal was shearing his sheep.
So they sent and gathered all the rulers of the Philistines, and they said, "Send away the ark of the God of Israel and let it return to itself place, so that it will not kill us and our people." For a deadly confusion was throughout all the city; the hand of God was very heavy there.
Now the words which David had spoken were heard and they reported them to Saul, and he summoned him.
So David went, he and the six hundred men who were with him, and came to the brook Besor, where those who were left behind stayed.
So do all Thine enemies perish, O Jehovah, And those loving Him As the going out of the sun in itself might!' and the land resteth forty years.
Yahweh's Spirit came mightily on him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and struck thirty men of them, and took their plunder, then gave the changes of clothing to those who declared the riddle. His anger burned, and he went up to his father's house.
But I trust in Jehovah that I myself also will come shortly.
about the time of her death the women who stood by her said to her, "Don't be afraid; for you have given birth to a son." But she didn't answer, neither did she regard it.
Now the house was full of men and women; and all the lords of the Philistines were there; and about three thousand men and women were on the roof, looking on while Samson made sport.
And the messengers come in, and lo, the teraphim on the bed, and the mattress of goats' , his pillows.
For to which of the messengers said He ever, `My Son thou art -- I to-day have begotten thee?' and again, `I will be to him for a father, and he shall be to Me for a son?'
saying, `I will declare Thy name to my brethren, in the midst of an assembly I will sing praise to Thee;' and again, `I will be trusting on Him;'
Then the Levites took down the ark of Yahweh and the container that was besides it, in which were the gold objects, and they set them on the large stone. Then the men of Beth Shemesh offered burnt-offerings, and they made sacrifices to Yahweh on that day.
After him Jair the Gileadite rose up, and he judged Israel twenty-two years.
In this way God, being determined to show more abundantly to the heirs of the promise the immutability of his counsel, interposed with an oath,
and the servants of Achish say unto him, `Is not this David king of the land? is it not of this one they sing in dances, saying, `Saul smote among his thousands, and David among his myriads?'
and Saul is eyeing David from that day and thenceforth.
Then the two of them made a covenant before Yahweh. David remained at Horesh, and Jonathan went to his house.
And Saul would have sent his spear through him, pinning him to the wall, but he bought away and the spear went into the wall: and that night David went in flight and got away.
For by one offering he hath perfected for ever them that are sanctified.
Now when he had gone, the king's servants came, and saw that the doors of the summer-house were locked; and they said, It may be that he is in his summer-house for a private purpose.
Yahweh's angel appeared to him, and said to him, "Yahweh is with you, you mighty man of valor!"
The kings came and fought, then fought the kings of Canaan in Taanach by the waters of Megiddo; they took no gain of money.
Only worthily of the good news of the Christ conduct ye yourselves, that, whether having come and seen you, whether being absent I may hear of the things concerning you, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one soul, striving together for the faith of the good news,
And the sons of Israel cry unto Jehovah, and Jehovah raiseth to them a saviour, Ehud son of Gera, the Benjamite now (the man -- shut of his right hand), and the sons of Israel send by his hand a present to Eglon king of Moab;
But if they say thus, Come up unto us; then we will go up; for Jehovah hath delivered them into our hand; and this shall be the sign unto us.
Who in the days of his flesh, having offered up both supplications and entreaties to him who was able to save him out of death, with strong crying and tears; (and having been heard because of his piety;)
and he saith, Send me away, I pray thee, for a family sacrifice we have in the city, and my brother himself hath given command to me, and now, if I have found favor in thine eyes, let me go away, I pray thee, and see my brethren; therefore he hath not come unto the table of king.'
The Amorites forced the children of Dan into the hill country, for they would not know them to come down to the valley;
And the Spirit of Jehovah will come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shalt be turned into another man.
And it came to pass on the morrow, which was the second day of the month, that David's place was empty: and Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Wherefore cometh not the son of Jesse to food, neither yesterday, nor to-day?
Gilead hast remained beyond the Jordan. Why did Dan dwell as a foreigner with ships? Asher sat at the border of the waters, and by his coves he hast been settling down.
even Jehovah, -- broken down are His adversaries, Against them in the heavens He thundereth, Even even Jehovah, judgeth the ends of the earth, And giveth strength to His king, And exalteth the horn of His anointed.'
but David went back and forth from Saul to feed the sheep of his father in Beth-lehem.
"In the days of Shamgar son of Anath, in the days of Jael, the caravans had ceased, the travelers, they kept to the byways.
And Jehovah looked upon him, and said: Go in this thy strength, and thou shalt deliver Israel out of the hand of Madian: know that I have sent thee.
and Elon the Zebulunite dieth, and is buried in Aijalon, in the land of Zebulun, one.
Won't you possess that which Chemosh your god gives you to possess? So whoever Yahweh our God hast dispossessed from before us, them will we get.
Even as also in another he says, *Thou* a priest for ever according to the ordinance of Melchisedec.
Fit you in all goodness, that you may do his will; doing in you that which is well pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom is glory for ever and ever. Amen.
So Saul was watching David with suspicion from that day onward.
And it came to pass the next day that an evil spirit from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house, but David played with his hand, as on other days; and the spear was in Saul's hand.
And after him, Elon the Zebulonite was judge of Israel; and he was judge of Israel for ten years.
Saul's uncle said to him and to his servant, "Where did you go?" He said, "To seek donkeys. When we saw that they were not found, we came to Samuel."
And Abigail cometh in unto Nabal, and lo, he hath a banquet in his house, like a banquet of the king, and the heart of Nabal glad within him, and he drunk unto excess, and she hath not declared to him anything, less or more, till the light of the morning.
Then Samuel said, Let all Israel come to Mizpah and I will make prayer to Jehovah for you.
And Jehovah came, and stood, and called as at the other times, Samuel, Samuel. Then Samuel answered, Speak, for thy servant heareth.
He took the elders of the city, and thorns of the wilderness and briers, and with them he taught the men of Succoth.
Then Jesse made Shammah to pass by. He said, "Yahweh hast not chosen this one, either."
And Jonathan, answering his father Saul, said to him, Why is he to be put to death? What hast he done?
And Saul summoned all the people to war, to go down to Keilah, to besiege David and his men.
Then David said to the Philistine, You come to me with a sword and a spear and a javelin: but I come to you in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel on which you have put shame.
For they who say such things show clearly that they seek country.
always in every request of mine on behalf of you all making my requests with joy,
and a certain woman doth cast a piece of a rider on the head of Abimelech, and breaketh his skull,
Because thou hast not hearkened to the voice of Jehovah, nor didst the fierceness of His anger on Amalek -- therefore this thing hath Jehovah done to thee this day;
Now the angel of Jehovah came and took his seat under the oak-tree in Ophrah, in the field of Joash the Abiezrite; and his son Gideon was crushing grain in the place where the grapes were crushed, so that the Midianites might not see it.
Then David and his men, about six hundred of them, went out of Keilah, and got away wherever they were able to go. And Saul, hearing that David had bought away from Keilah, did not go there.
And when the Philistines had beard this, and it was noised about among them, that Samson was come into the city, they surrounded him, setting guards at the gate of the city, and watching there all the night in silence, that in the morning they might kill him as he went out.
and thou hast beheld an adversary [in My] habitation, in all that He doth good with Israel, and there is not an old man in thy house all the days.
And they put his armor in the temple of Ashtoreth, and they fastened his corpse to the wall of Beth Shan.
Rejoice in Jehovah always; again I say, rejoice.
But Hannah did not go, for she said to her husband, I will not go till the child hast been taken from the breast, and then I will take him with me and put him before Jehovah, where he may be for ever.
So David and his men got up early in the morning to go back to the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
Then Samson went down to Thamnatlia, and seeing there a woman of the daughters of the Philistines,
and he hath thirty sons riding on thirty ass-colts, and they have thirty cities, They call them Havoth-Jair unto this day), which in the land of Gilead?
Now in saying a new, he hath made the former old. And that which wasteth and groweth old, is near itself end.
And Samuel said: Doth Jehovah desire holocausts and victims, and not rather that the voice of Jehovah should be obeyed? For obedience is better than sacrifices; and to hearken rather than to offer the fat of rams.
And, "You, Lord, in the beginning, laid the foundation of the earth. The heavens are the works of your hands.
As he talked with them, behold, the champion, the Philistine of Gath, Goliath by name, came up out of the ranks of the Philistines, and said the same words; and David heard them.
When he had brought him down, behold, they were spread around over all the ground, eating; drinking, and dancing, because of all the great plunder that they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
Like all the works they have done from the day I brought them up from Egypt until this day, they have forsaken me, and have served other godsso they are doing to you also.
but one hast testified somewhere, saying, What is man, that thou rememberest him, or son of man that thou visitest him?
And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned: for I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and thy words: because I feared the people, and obeyed their voice.
He said to him, "If now I have found favor in your sight, then show me a sign that it is you who talk with me.
nor yet that he should offer himself often, as the high priest enters into the holy place year by year with blood not his own,
But if you continue to do wickedness, both you and your king will be swept away."
And the lords of the Philistines went on with their hundreds and their thousands, and David and his men came after with Achish.
Now where there is remission of these, there is no longer an offering for sin.
And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and he rehearsed them in the ears of Jehovah.
for whom Lord loves he chastens, and a scourge every son whom he receives.
and he smote it into the pan, or kettle, or cauldron, or pot; the priest took of it all that flesh-hook brought up. So they did in Shiloh to all Israel that came there.
And they set them up Micah's graven image, which he made, all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
And Saul said, Draw ye near hither, all the chief of the people: and know and see wherein this sin hath been this day.
And this we will do, if God permits.
And Ephraim hath not dispossessed the Canaanite who is dwelling in Gezer, and the Canaanite dwelleth in itself midst, in Gezer.
in order that you may become guiltless and innocent; children of God without fault in the midst of a crooked and perverted generation, among whom you shine as stars in the world,
But I am very glad in Jehovah that your care for me hast come to life again; though you did in fact take thought for me, but you were not able to give effect to it.
and being perfected, he became the source of eternal salvation to all those who obey him,
Speak to the people, and proclaim in the hearing of all, I Whosoever is fearful and timorous, let him return. So two and twenty thousand men went away from mount Galaad and returned home, and only ten thousand remained.
Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people by his own blood, suffered without the gate.
For I have no one like-minded who will care with genuine feeling how ye get on.
And he saith unto all Israel, `Ye -- ye are on one side, and I and Jonathan my son are on another side;' and the people say unto Saul, `That which is good in thine eyes do.'
Then Abimelech went to Thebez, and he encamped against Thebez and captured it.
Neither did Naphtali drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, nor the inhabitants of Bethanath; but he dwelt among the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land: nevertheless the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh and of Bethanath became tributary unto them.
And the men of Ephraim gathered themselves together, and went northward, and said unto Jephthah, Wherefore passedst thou over to fight against the children of Ammon, and didst not call us to go with thee? we will burn thy house upon thee with fire.
And now the king goeth before you: but I am old and greyheaded: and my sons are with you: having then conversed with you from my youth unto this day, behold, here I am.
And Saul said, Cast lots between me and Jonathan my son. And Jonathan was taken.
And these things having been thus prepared, into the first tabernacle, indeed, at all times the priests do go in, accomplish the services,
And Dalila said to him again: How long dost thou deceive me, and tell me lies, show me wherewith thou mayest be bound. And Samson answered her: If thou plattest the seven locks of my head with a lace, and tying them round about a nail fastenest it in the ground, I shall be weak.
And he smote them from Aroer till you come to Mennith, twenty cities, and as far as Abel, which is set with vineyards, with a very great slaughter: and the children of Ammon were humbled by the children of Israel.
For that leaders led in Israel, For that the people willingly offered themselves, Bless Jehovah!
So Abimelech went up Mount Zalmon, he and all his army that were with him, and Abimelech took the ax in his hand and cut down a bundle of brushwood, and he lifted it and put it on his shoulder. And he said to the army that was with him, "What you have seen me do, quickly do also."
And when the burning began to rise up out of the city as a pillar of smoke, Benjamin looked behind, and behold, the whole city ascended [in smoke] to the heavens.
for also our God a devouring fire.
For Yahweh will not forsake his people for his great name's sake, because it hast pleased Yahweh to make you a people for himself.
Only lead your lives in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you or am absent I hear your circumstances, that you are standing firm in one spirit, with one soul contending side by side for the faith of the gospel,
`This the covenant that I will make with them after those days, saith Jehovah, giving My laws on their hearts, and upon their minds I will write them,'
But if ye are without chastening, of which all have been made partakers, then are ye bastards, and not sons.
So then, prepare one new utility cart and two milking cows that have never had a yoke on them, and you must harness the cows to the utility cart and then turn their calves from following them to their stall.
And if thou fear to go down, go thou with Phurah thy servant down to the camp;
and Jesse calleth unto Abinadab, and causeth him to pass by before Samuel: and he saith, `Also on this Jehovah hath not fixed.'
And Hannah answered and said, No, my lord, I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit: I have drunk no wine nor strong drink, but have poured out my soul before Jehovah.
The kings came on to the fight, the kings of Canaan were warring; in Taanach by the waters of Megiddo: they took no profit in money.
They were making their hearts merry; when behold, the men of the city, sons fellow, surrounded the house, off beating at the door; and they spoke to the master of the house, the old man, saying, Bring forth the man that came into thy house, that we may know him.
And the watchers saw a man coming out of the village, and said to him, If you will make clear to us the way into the village, we will be kind to you.
By faith Moses, when he became a man, had no desire to be named the son of Pharaoh's daughter;
Saul stayed in the uttermost part of Gibeah under the pomegranate tree which is in Migron: and the people who were with him were about six hundred men;
Now Kish was the father of Saul, but Ner, the father of Abner, was the son of Abiel.
And David said to Achimelech the priest: The king hath commanded me a business, and said: Let no man know the thing for which thou art sent by me, and what manner of commands I have given thee: and I have appointed my servants to such and such a place.
Elkanah went to Ramah to his house. The child served Yahweh before Eli the priest.
And Jephthah cometh into Mizpeh, unto his house, and lo, his daughter is coming out to meet him with timbrels, and with choruses, and save her alone, he hath none, son or daughter.
And behold, Saul came after the oxen from the field; and Saul said, What the people that they weep? And they related to him the words of the men of Jabesh.
So that my bands are made manifest in Christ, in all the court, and in all other places;
May God severely punish the enemies of David and again do thus if I leave behind anything that is his until the morning, not even one male!"
And Manoah saith unto his wife, `We certainly die, for we have seen God.'
And they found Adoni-Bezek in Bezek, and fought against him, and they smote the Canaanites and the Perizzites.
Jonathan caused David to swear again, for the love that he had to him; for he loved him as he loved his own soul.
Now to our God and Father be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
Because God had kept some better thing for us, so that it was not possible for them to become complete without us.
He came to the men of Succoth, and he said, "Here is Zebah and Zalmunna, about whom you taunted me, saying, 'Is the palm of Zebah and Zalmunna in your hand now, that we should give food to your weary men?'"
"Then a remnant of the nobles and the people came down. Yahweh came down for me against the mighty.
And it was so, that, all that saw it said, There hath been no such deed done nor seen from the day that the children of Israel came up out of the land of Egypt unto this day: consider of it, take advice, and speak your minds.
And Saul casteth the spear at him to smite him, and Jonathan knoweth that it hath been determined by his father to put David to death.
Zebulun was a people that jeopardized their lives to death; Naphtali also, on the high places of the field.
Now Hobab the Kenite, Moses' father-in-law, had come up out of the village of palm-trees, with the children of Judah, into the waste land of Arad; and he went and was living among the Amalekites;
But into the second went the high priest alone once every year, not without blood, which he offered for himself, and for the errors of the people;
And she arose, and bowed herself on her face to the earth, and said, Behold, let thy handmaid be a servant to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.
But his master said to him, We will not go out of our way into a strange village, whose people are not of the children of Israel; but we will go forth to Gibeah.
And he returned after a time to take her, and he turned aside to see the carcass of the lion; and behold, [there was] a swarms of bees in the carcass of the lion, and honey;
nor in order that he should offer himself often, as the high priest enters into the holy places every year with blood not his own;
Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood, suffered without the gate.
And they forgot Jehovah their God, and he delivered them into the hands of Sisara, captain of the army of Hasor, and into the hands of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought against them.
And it came to pass when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah came into the camp, that all Israel shouted with a great shout, so that the earth shook.
And Delilah said to Samson, Hitherto thou hast mocked me and told me lies. Tell me with what thou mightest be bound. And he said to her, If thou shouldest weave the seven locks of my head with the web.
For a tent was prepared, the first one, in which were the lampstand and the table and the presentation of the loaves, which is called the holy place.
For it became him, for whom are all things, and through whom are all things, in bringing many children to glory, to make a God of their salvation perfect through sufferings.
And Zebul said to him, "Where then is your gloriest, it is you who said, 'Who is Abimelech that we should serve him?' Is this not the army that you rejected? Please, go out now and fight against them."
For this Melchisedek, king of Salem, priest of God Most High, who did meet Abraham turning back from the smiting the kings, and did bless him,
Therefore when he comes into the world, he says, "Sacrifice and offering you didn't desire, but you prepared a body for me.
All the saints salute you, chiefly they that are of Caesar's household.
And they gathered together to Mizpah, and drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah, and fasted on that day, and said there, We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizpah.
And they cried to even Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and have served the Baals and the Ashtoreths; and now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.
And Jonathan said to David, May Jehovah, the God of Israel, be witness; when I have had a chance of talking to my father, about this time tomorrow, if his feelings to David are good, will I not send and give you the news?
The brethren who are with me, salute you. All the saints salute you; especially those that are of Caesar's household.
Saul said to David, "You are not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him; for you are but a youth, and he a man of war from his youth."
And Samuel said to all Israel: Behold, I have hearkened to your voice in all that you said to me, and have made a king over you.
And the Philistines gather all their camp to Aphek, and Israel are encamping at a fountain which in Jezreel,
And the children of Ammon were called together and encamped in Gilead? and the children of Israel gathered together and encamped in Mizpah.
Therefore they sent the ark of God into Accaron. And when the ark of God was come into Accaron, the Accaronites cried out, speaking: They have brought the ark of the God of Israel to us, to kill us and our people.
and Saul saith, `Hear, I pray thee, son of Ahitub;' and he saith, `Here I, my lord.'
And the sons of Israel go up and down thence at that time, each to his tribe, and to his family; and they go out thence each to his inheritance.
Obey your leaders, and be submissive; for *they* watch over your souls as those that shall give account; that they may do this with joy, and not groaning, for this [would be] unprofitable for you.
And I said to you, I am Jehovah your God; you are not to give worship to the gods of the Amorites in whose land you are living, but you did not give ear to my voice.
Then all Midian, Amalekites, and the people of the east gathered together and crossed the the Jordan; and they encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
Then Samuel took the bottle of oil, and put the oil on his head and gave him a kiss and said, Is not Jehovah with the holy oil making you ruler over Israel, his people? and you will have authority over the people of Jehovah, and you will make them safe from the hands of their attackers round about them, and this will be the sign for you;
who hast been constituted not according to law of fleshly commandment, but according to power of indissoluble life.
Then all the people said to Samuel, "Pray for your servants to Yahweh your God so that we will not die, because we have added to all our sins by requesting a king for ourselves."
And all the people rose up as one man, saying, We will not any one go to his tent, neither will we any one turn into his house.
And he said unto them, Why are you doing such things? for from all this people I get account of your evil ways.
And the angel of Jehovah said to Manoah, Though you keep me I will not take of your food; but if you will make a burned thereof, let it be offered to Jehovah. For it had not come into Manoah's mind that he was the angel of Jehovah.
Ehud made himself a sword which had two edges, a cubit in length; and he wore it under his clothing on his right thigh.
and take the ark of Jehovah, and lay it upon the cart, and the golden jewels, which ye return him as a trespass-offering, put in the coffer by the side thereof; and send it away that it may go.
and take their daughters to them for wives, and their daughters have given to their sons, and they serve their gods;
And it came to pass, while Saul talked unto the priest, that the noise that was in the host of the Philistines went on and increased: and Saul said unto the priest, Withdraw thy hand.
And from there, David went up and took cover in the safe place of En-gedi.
Now the house was full of men and women; and all the lords of the Philistines were there; and upon the roof there were about three thousand men and women, who looked on while Samson made sport.
And David rose up early, he and his men, to depart in the morning, to return into the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jizreel.
And Hannah, in prayer before Jehovah, said, My heart is glad in Jehovah, my horn is lifted up in Jehovah: my mouth is open wide over my haters; because my joy is in your salvation.
When the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they each departed to his place.
And not one of these bought the good things of the agreement, though they all had a good witness through faith,
And David is hidden in the field, and it is the new moon, and the king sat down by the food to eat,
And Samuel called the people together to even Jehovah, to Mizpah.
And it cometh to pass, after days, in the days of wheat-harvest, that Samson looketh after his wife, with a goat, and saith, `I go in unto my wife, to the inner chamber;' and her father hath not permitted him to go in,
Then David said to his young men; Let every man gird on his sword. And they girded on every man his sword. And David also girded on his sword: and there followed David about four hundred men: and two hundred remained with the baggage.
So he brought him to his house, and he fed the donkeys; they washed their feet, ate, and drank.
and Jehovah saith unto Samuel, `Hearken to their voice, and thou hast caused to reign over them a king.' And Samuel saith unto the men of Israel, `Go ye each to his city.'
Because of your help in giving the good news from the first day till now;
When he had finished prophesying, he came to the high place.
And the word of Samuel came to all Israel. Now Israel went out against the Philistines to battle, and encamped besides Ebenezer: and the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
Then Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and captain over them; and Jephthah uttered all his words before Jehovah in Mizpah.
And when Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning, it was told Samuel, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and, behold, he set him up a place, and is gone about, and passed on, and gone down to Gilgal.
And the hair of his head beginneth to shoot up, when he hath been shaven,
So I sware in my wrath, They shall not enter into my rest.)
And the man got up to go away, but his father-in-law would not let him go, so he took his rest there again for the night.
Therefore let us also, seeing we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, lay aside every weight and the sin which so easily entangles us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us,
They said, "Yahweh, the God of Israel, why hast this happened in Israel, that there should be one tribe lacking in Israel today?"
And, "You, Lord, laid the foundation of the earth in the beginning, and the heavens are the work of your hands;
Think this in yourselves which was also in Christ Jesus,
and had taken captive the women and all who were in it, both small and great. They didn't kill any, but carried them off, and went their way.
So Jerobaal the son of Joas went, and dwelt in his own house.
And the men of Israel were called from Naphtali, from Asher, and from all of Manasseh, and they pursued after Midian.
Then the lords of the Philistines gathered them together to offer a great sacrifice unto Dagon their god, and to rejoice; for they said, Our god hath delivered Samson our enemy into our hand.
So Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel. And the land had rest fourscore years.
And Achish saith unto his servants, `Lo, ye see a man acting as a madman; why do ye bring him in unto me?
And David said to Ahimelech the priest, The king hast commanded me a business, and hast said to me, Let no man know anything of the business whereon I send thee, and what I have commanded thee; and I have directed the young men to such and such a place.
Afterward the descendants of Judah pursued to fight against the Canaanite who were living in the hill country, the Negev, and the Shephelah.
And David was greatly afflicted: for the people had a mind to stone him, for the soul of every man was bitterly grieved for his sons and daughters: but David took spirit in Jehovah his God.
Jair died, and was buried in Kamon.
And the word of Samuel came to all Israel. Now Israel went out to meet the Philistines for battle, and they encamped in Ebenezer, and the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
Therefore Saul said to Yahweh, the God of Israel, "Show the right." Jonathan and Saul were chosen, but the people escaped.
And when his servants told David these words, it pleased David well to be the king's son in law: and the days were not expired.
Now if it was possible for things to be made complete through the priests of the house of Levi (for the law was given to the people in connection with them), what need was there for another priest who was of the order of Melchizedek and not of the order of Aaron?
And Saul's uncle said, Tell me, I pray thee, what Samuel said to you.
And the king of the children of Ammon would not hearken to the words of Jephte, which he sent him by the messengers.
And Isai took an ass laden with bread, and a bottle of wine, and a kid of the flock, and sent them by the hand of David his son to Saul.
"Now therefore take and prepare yourselves a new cart, and two milk cows, on which there hast come no yoke; Tie the cows to the cart, and bring their calves home from them;
So we must go out to him outside the camp, bearing his reproach.
Then a man from the army informed him and said, "Your father made the army swear a solemn oath, saying, 'Cursed be the man who eats food today,'" so the army is exhausted.
Then they took their bones and buried them under the tamarisk in Jabesh, and they fasted for seven days.
And again, when he bringeth in the first begotten into the world, he saith: And let all the angels of God adore him.
And it came to pass, when the evil spirit from God was upon Saul, that David took an harp, and played with his hand: so Saul was refreshed, and was well, and the evil spirit departed from him.
By faith it is clear to us that the order of events was fixed by the word of God, so that what is seen hast not been made from things which only seem to be.
Thou makest him a little lower than the angels; thou crownedst him with glory and honor, and didst set him over the works of thy hands:
For this cause it was necessary to make the copies of the things in heaven clean with these offerings; but the things themselves are made clean with better offerings than these.
So the Philistines fought, and Israel was overthrown, and every man fled to his own dwelling: and there was an exceeding great slaughter; for there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen.
For where there is a testament, the death of the testator must of necessities come in.
Thus they inclosed the Benjamites round about, and chased them, and trod them down with ease over against Gibeah toward the sunrising.
And he did not have to make an offering of himself again and again, as the high priest goes into the holy place every year with blood which is not his;
And David heard in the wilderness that Nabal was shearing his sheep.
and now, rise thou early in the morning, and the servants of thy lord who have come with thee, when ye have risen early in the morning, and have light, then go ye.'
And the land had rest forty years. And Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
And almost all things, according to the law, are cleansed with blood: and without shedding of blood there is no remission.
And straightway Saul fell all along on the ground, for he was frightened with the words of Samuel, and there was no strength in him, for he had eaten no bread all that day.
Whereupon neither the first covenant was dedicated without blood.
The Israelites did not remember Yahweh their God, who had delivered them from the hand of their enemies from all around,
And Elkanah her husband saith to her, `Do that which is good in thine eyes; abide till thy weaning him; only, even Jehovah, establish His word;' and the woman abideth and suckleth her son till she hath weaned him,
And many of the brethren in Jehovah, waxing confident by my bonds, are much more bold to speak the word without fear.
but if also I am poured forth upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice and joy with you all,
So Israel stationed an ambush all around Gibeah.
Then David came to Ziklag, and he sent some of the plunder to the elders of Judah, to his friends, saying, "Here is a gift for you from the plunder of the enemies of Yahweh!"
Obey them that have the rule over you, and submit yourselves; for they watch for your souls, as they that must give money, that they may do it with joy, and not with grief: for that is unprofitable for you.
For there is a setting aside of the commandment going before for itself weakness and unprofitableness,
And further, the Glory of Israel will not say what is false, and his purpose may not be changed: for he is not a man, whose purpose may be changed.
Jael went out to meet Sisera, and said to him, "Turn in, my lord, turn in to me; don't be afraid." He came in to her into the tent, and she covered him with a rug.
and it cometh to pass, in the ascent of the flame from off the altar toward the heavens, that the messenger of even Jehovah, goeth up in the flame of the altar, and Manoah and his wife are looking on, and they fall on their faces to the earth,
Then the princes of the Philistines went out; and as often as they went out, David behaved himself more wisely than all the servants of Saul, so that his name was highly esteemed.
But when the time came to give Merab, Saul's daughter, to David, she was given to Adriel of Meholath.
And Samson and his father and mother went down to Timna, and they came to the vineyards of Timna, and suddenly a young lion came roaring to meet him.
Because of the flowing hair of the fighters in Israel, because the people gave themselves freely, give praise to Jehovah.
Behold, my daughter, who is a virgin, and his concubine; let me bring them out, and humble ye them, and do to them as is good in your sight; but to this man do not so vile a thing.
Seeing therefore it remains that some should enter therein, and they to whom the good news was before preached failed to enter in because of disobedience,
And they said, What one is there of the tribes of Israel that came not up to Mizpah to Jehovah? And behold, there came none to the camp from Jabesh-Gilead, to the assembly;
David stayed in the wilderness in the strongholds, and remained in the hill country in the wilderness of Ziph. Saul sought him every day, but God didn't deliver him into his hand.
And he that sacrificed said to him: Let the fat first be burnt to-day according to the ordinance, and then take as much as thy soul desireth. But he answered and said to him: Not so: but thou shalt give it me now, or else I will take it by force.
But it came to pass within a while after, in the time of wheat harvest, that Samson visited his wife with a kid; and he said, I will go in to my wife into the chamber. But her father would not suffer him to go in.
And the children of Israel cried to Jehovah; for he had nine hundred chariots of iron, and he powerfully oppressed the children of Israel twenty years.
which way he did initiate for us -- new and living, through the veil, that is, his flesh --
And Samson goeth to Gaza, and seeth there a woman, a harlot, and goeth in unto her;
The border of the Amorites was from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock, and upward.
Then Heli called Samuel, and said: Samuel, my son. And he answered: Here am I.
Now the ark of Yahweh had been in the territory of the Philistines for seven months,
grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Know that our brother Timothy hast been released, with whom I will see you, if he comes quickly enough.
If then, any exhortation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of spirit, if any bowels and mercies,
And she arose and bowed herself down with her face to the earth, and said: Behold, let thy servant be a handmaid, to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.
The servant answered Saul again, and said: Behold, there is found in my hand the fourth part of a sicle of silver, let us give it to the man of God, that he may tell us our way.
And the angel of Jehovah said to Manoah, Let the woman take note of what I have said to her.
But this with an oath, by him that said unto him: Jehovah hath sworn, and he will not repent: Thou art a priest for ever.)
Now keep where you are and see this great thing which Jehovah will do before your eyes.
Then Saul said to the servants who were standing around him, "Please listen, Benjaminites! Will the son of Jesse give you all fields and vineyards? Will he make all of you commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds?
and the sons of Israel go up against the sons of Benjamin, on the third day, and arrange themselves against Gibeah, as time by time.
But of the Son he says, "Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of uprightness is the scepter of your Kingdom.
And, hearing what David said, they gave Saul word of it: and he sent for him.
And the men of Israel and Judah rising up shouted, and pursued after the Philistines till they came to the valley and to the gates of Accaron, and there fell many wounded of the Philistines in the way of Saraim, and as far as Geth, and as far as Accaron.
And the people said to Saul, Is death to come to Jonathan, the worker of this great salvation for Israel? Let it not be so: by the living Lord, not one hair of his head is to be touched, for he hast been working with God today. So the people kept Jonathan from death.
And the name of the man Nabal, and the name of his wife Abigail, and the woman of good understanding, and of fair ordinance concerning them; and the man hard and evil doings; and he a Calebite.
And he said to the men of Soccoth: give, I beseech you, bread to the people that is with me, for they are faint: that we may pursue Zebee, and Salmana the kings of Madian.
for he also aileth nigh to death, but God did deal kindly with him, and not with him only, but also with me, that sorrow upon sorrow I might not have.
But if not, may fire come out from Abimelech, burning up the townsmen of Shechem and Beth-millo; and may fire come out from the townsmen of Shechem and Beth-millo, for the destruction of Abimelech.
Then Samuel said, Make Agag, the king of the Amalekites, come here to me. And Agag came to him shaking with fear. And Agag said, Truly the pain of death is passed away.
Therefore neither the priests of Dagon, nor any that come into Dagon's house, tread on the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod, unto this day.
When he had finished offering the custom, he sent away the people who carried the taskwork.
And the Philistines were afraid, speaking: God is come into the camp. And groaning, they said:
And may be found in him, not having my righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is of the faith of Christ Jesus, which is of God, righteousness in faith:
And the king said, Inquire thou whose son this youth is.
Therefore you shall make images of your tumors, and images of your mice that mar the land; and you shall give glory to the God of Israel. Perhaps he will release his hand from you, from your gods, and from your land.
Saul said to David, "Behold, my elder daughter Merab, I will give her to you as wife. Only be valiant for me, and fight Yahweh's battles." For Saul said, "Don't let my hand be on him, but let the hand of the Philistines be on him."
And David took the head of the Philistine and brought it to Jerusalem; but he put his armor in his tent.
And betimes in the morning at sun rising set upon the city. And when he shall come out against thee with his people, do to him what thou shalt be able.
Delilah said to Samson, "Please tell me where your great strength lies, and what you might be bound to afflict you."
Now therefore, please pardon my sin, and turn again with me, that I may worship Yahweh."
and a high priest over the house of God,
And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold now, an evil spirit from God troubleth thee.
He ran, and stood over the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew it out of the sheath, and slew him, and cut off his head. And the Philistines seeing that their champion was dead, fled away.
And Saul saith, `Thus do ye say to David, There is no delight to the king in dowry, but in a hundred foreskins of the Philistines -- to be avenged on the enemies of king;' and Saul thought to cause David to fall by the hand of the Philistines.
And when their fathers or their brothers come and make trouble, you are to say to them, Give them to us as an act of grace, for we did not take them as wives for ourselves in war; and if you yourselves had given them to us you would have been responsible for the broken oath.
Wherefore we receiving a kingdom which cannot be moved, let us have grace, whereby we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear:
`And, now, this blessing which thy maid-servant hath brought to my lord -- it hath been given to the young men who are going up and down at the feet of my lord.
And the lords of the Philistines came up to her, and said to her, Persuade him, and see in what his great strength is, and with what we may prevail against him, that we may bind him to overpower him; and we will each give thee eleven hundred silver-pieces.
But, for all this, you have given me up and have been servants to other gods: so I will be your saviour no longer.
Then said he to Zebah and Zalmunna, What sort of men were they that ye slew at Tabor? And they answered, As thou art, so were they; each one resembled the sons of a king.
So he took them into his house and gave the asses food; and after washing their feet they took food and drink.
And as touching the matter which thou and I have spoken of, behold, Jehovah be between thee and me for ever.
He sent messengers throughout all Manasseh; and they also were gathered together to follow him. He sent messengers to Asher, and to Zebulun, and to Naphtali: and they came up to meet them.
And Samson said unto the lad that held him by the hand, Suffer me that I may feel the pillars whereupon the house for evermore, that I may lean upon them.
But Jonathan Saul's son delighted much in David: and Jonathan told David, saying, Saul my father seeketh to kill thee: now therefore, I pray thee, take heed to thyself until the morning, and abide in a cellar, and hide thyself:
But if I say thus to the youth; Behold, the arrows are beyond thee,go thy way; for even Jehovah, sends thee away.
And when David knew that Saul devised mischief against him, he said to Abiathar the priest, Bring the ephod.
And they did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and they forgot their God, and served the Baalim and Astaroth.
Swear to me by Jehovah, that thou wilt not destroy my seed after me, nor take away my name from the house of my father.
The three oldest sons of Jesse had gone and followed Saul to the battle. The names of his three sons who went to the battle were Eliab the first-born, his second oldest was Abinadab, and the third was Shammah.
When they were by Jebus, the day was far spent; and the servant said to his master, "Please come and let us turn aside into this city of the Jebusite, and rely in it."
And they have been many priests, on account of being hindered from continuing by death;
and David is going and returning from Saul, to feed the flock of his father at Beth-Lehem.
They commanded the children of Benjamin, saying, "Go and lie in wait in the vineyards,
And the children of Ammon passed over the the Jordan to fight also against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim: and Israel was greatly distressed.
and said to him, Behold, thou art become old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways: now appoint us a king to judge us, like all the nations.
You yourselves also know, you Philippians, that in the beginning of the Good News, when I departed from Macedonia, no assembly shared with me in the matter of giving and receiving but you only.
See, here is my daughter, a virgin, and his servant-wife: I will send them out for you to take them and do with them whatever you will. But do no such thing of shame to this man.
When all the men of Israel saw the man, they fled from his presence and were very afraid.
And they forsook Jehovah, and served Baal and the Ashtoreths.
All the saints salute you, and especially those of Caesar's household.
He ran to Eli, and said, "Here I am, for you called me." He said, "I didn't call. Lie down again." He went and lay down.
The lad went, and David arose from the side of the South, and fell on his face to the ground, and bowed himself three times; and they kissed one another, and wept one with another, until David behaved themselves proudly.
And they found Adonibezec in Bezec, and fought against him, and they defeated the Chanaanite, and the Pherezite.
Then they said, "You have not exploited us or oppressed us, and you have not taken anything from the hand of anyone."
Therefore neither the priests of Dagon, nor any who come into Dagon's house, step on the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod, unto this day.
So all the people went to Gilgal, and they made Saul king there before Yahweh in Gilgal. They sacrificed fellowship offerings there before Yahweh. Then Saul rejoiced there greatly along with all the men of Israel.
And Ehud had escaped while they lingered, and passed beyond the graven images, and escaped to Seirah.
and Sihon hath not trusted Israel to pass over through his border, and Sihon gathereth all his people, and they encamp in Jahaz; and fight with Israel;
how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, cleanse our consciences from dead works to serve the living God?
When Yahweh sent you on your way, he said to you: 'Go! You must utterly destroy the sinners, the Amalekites, and you must fight against them until you have destroyed them.'
"Then the hooves of the horse beat loudly, because of galloping, galloping of his stallions.
and lo, Saul hath come after the herd out of the field, and Saul saith, `What -- to the people, that they weep?' and they recount to him the words of the men of Jabesh.
Who were seven hundred most valiant men, fighting with the left hand as well as with the right: and slinging stones so sure that they could overtook even a hair, and not miss by the stone's going on either side.
For yet a little while, and he that shall come will come, and will not delay.
And Jehovah discomfited Sisera, and all his chariots, and all his host, with the edge of the sword before Barak; so that Sisera alighted off his chariot, and fled away on his feet.
for the coming in of the violence the seventy sons of Jerubbaal, and of their blood to cause on Abimelech their brother, who slew them, and on the masters of Shechem, who strengthened his hands to slay his brethren.
And it is declared to Saul, saying, `Lo, David in Naioth in Ramah.'
And if it comes about that the name of Jonathan is cut off from the family of David, Jehovah will make David responsible.
And the men of Israel, besides Benjamin, were numbered four hundred thousand men that drew sword: all these were men of war.
For consider him who hast endured such contradiction of sinners against himself, that you don't grow weary, fainting in your souls.
And Micah said to him, "From where do you come?" And he said to him, "I am a Levite from Beth-lehem in Judah: I am going to dwell as a foreigner wherever I can find a place."
And they set up to themselves the graven image, and Jonathan the son of Gersam the son of Moses, he and his sons were priests in the tribe of Dan, until the day of their captivity.
And he stood and cried to the ranks of Israel, and said unto them, Why are ye come out to set your battle in array? am not I, Philistine, and ye servants of Saul? choose for yourselves a man, and let him come down to me.
The woman bore a son, and she called him Samson; the boy grew big, and Yahweh blessed him.
And Samuel told the people the law of the kingdom, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before Jehovah: and Samuel sent away all the people, every one to his own house.
For every house is built by some man: but he that created all things, is God.
So David received of her hand that which she had brought him, and said unto her, Go up in peace to thy house; see, I have hearkened to thy voice, and have accepted thy person.
So David took the spear and the vessel of water from Saul's head; and they gat away without any man seeing them, or being conscious of their coming, or awaking; for they were all sleeping because a deep sleep from Jehovah had come on them.
Then they told Saul, saying, Behold, the people sin against Jehovah, in that they eat with the blood. And he said, Ye have transgressed: roll a great stone unto me this day.
And they drew up their army against Benjamin the third time, as they had done the first and second.
I will declare thy name to my brethren; in the midst of the church will I praise thee.
Then Saul sent messengers to Isai, speaking: Send me David thy son, who is in the pastures;
And it answered them: If indeed you mean to make me king, come ye and rest under my shade; yea, but if you mean it not, let fire come out from the bramble, and devour the cedars of Libanus.
The Israelites cried out to Yahweh, and Yahweh raised up a deliverer for the Israelites who delivered them, Othniel son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
Let nothing be done through contention, neither by vain glory: but in humility, let each esteem others better than themselves:
And as for the matter about which you and I spoke, look, Yahweh is between you and me forever."
have I lack of madmen, that ye have brought this one to rave in my presence? shall this come into my house?
for a disannulling indeed doth come of the command going before because of itself weakness, and unprofitableness,
But if you are unable to explain it to me, you must give me thirty linen garments and thirty festal garments." So they said to him, "Tell your riddle; let us hear it."
Yahweh's angel came, and sat under the oak which was in Ophrah, that belonged to Joash the Abiezrite. His son Gideon was off beating out wheat in the wine crowd, to hide it from the Midianites.
"It grieves me that I have set up Saul to be king; for he hast turned back from following me, and hast not performed my commandments." Samuel was angry; and he cried to Yahweh all night.
After this he fell in love with a woman in the wadi of Sorek, and her name was Delilah.
And to whom did he swear they would not enter into his rest, except those who were disobedient?
God chose new leaders, then war was at the gates; a small shield or a spear was not seen among forty thousand in Israel.
Only let your way of life be worthy of the Good News of Christ, that, whether I come and see you or am absent, I may hear of your state, that you stand firm in one spirit, with one soul striving for the faith of the Good News;
So he brought down the people to the water; and Yahweh said to Gideon, "Everyone who laps of the water with his tongue, like a dog laps, you shall set him by himself; likewise everyone who bows down on his knees to drink."
And there was nothing lacking to them, neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, neither spoil, nor anything that they had taken to them: David recovered all.
whither a forerunner for us did enter -- Jesus, after the order of Melchisedek chief priest having become -- to the age.
Everyone who was in distress, everyone who was in debt, and everyone who was discontented, gathered themselves to him; and he became captain over them. There were with him about four hundred men.
Then God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem; and the men of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech,
Let us hold fast the confession in of our faith apart from wavering; (for he is faithful that promised;)
Now Haber the Cinite had some time before departed from the rest of the Cinites his brethren the sons of Hobab, the kinsman of Moses: and had pitched his tents unto the valley which is called Sellnim, and was near Cedes.
Then you will be crying out because of your king whom you have taken for ado; but Jehovah will not give you an answer in that day.
Then Saul said, Come here and give me the burned offering and the peace-offerings. And he made a burned oblation to Jehovah.
And the two wives of David have been taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail wife of Nabal the Carmelite;
Therefore, we also having so great a cloud of witnesses set around us, every weight having put off, and the closely besetting sin, through endurance may we run the contest that is set before us,
for the law doth appoint men chief priests, having infirmity, but the word of oath that after the law the Son -- to the age having been completed.
And he said to him, We are on our way from Beth-lehem-judah to the inmost parts of the hill-country of Ephraim: I came from there and went to Beth-lehem-judah: now I am on my way back to my house, but no man will take me into his house.
and in this again, If they shall enter into my rest.
And far from me be this sin against Jehovah, that I should cease to pray for you, and I will teach you the good and right way.
And again, when he is sending his only Son into the world, he says, Let all the angels of God give him worship.
And it came to pass, as soon as he had made an end of offering the burnt-offering, behold, Samuel came; and Saul went out to meet him, that he might salute him.
But solid food is for men of full growth, even for those whose senses are trained by use to see what is good and what is evil.
So the children of Israel went forward against the children of Benjamin the second day.
For men indeed swear by a greater, and with them the oath is a term to all dispute, as making matters sure.
David's men said to him, "Behold, the day of which Yahweh said to you, 'Behold, I will deliver your enemy into your hand, and you shall do to him as it shall seem good to you.'" Then David arose, and cut off the skirt of Saul's robe secretly.
all of the valiant men set out and went all night and took the corpse of Saul and the corpses of his sons from the wall of Beth Shan, and they came to Jabesh and burned them there.
And the priest gave him holy ; for there was no bread there but the shew-loaves that were taken from before Jehovah, to put on hot bread in the day when they were taken away.
Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on that side of the mountain; and David hurried to get away for fear of Saul; for Saul and his men surrounded David and his men to take them.
While Saul was still speaking to the priest, the tumult in the camp of the Philistines increased more and more, so Saul said to the priest, "Withdraw your hand!"
(The descendants of Benjamin heard that Israel had gone up to Mizpah.) And Israel said, "Tell us, how did this evil act occur?"
I appeal to Euodia and I appeal to Syntyche to be in agreement in the Lord.
For our commonwealth exists in heaven, from which also we eagerly await a savior, the Lord Jesus Christ,
But into the second, the high priest alone, once a old: not without blood, which he offereth for his own, and the people's ignorance:
And she saith unto him, `How dost thou say, I have loved thee, and thy heart is not with me? these three times thou hast played upon me, and hast not declared to me wherein thy great power .'
For our citizenship is in the heavens, whence also a Saviour we await -- the Lord Jesus Christ --
The boy therefore came to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot: and Jonathan cried after the boy, and said: Behold, the arrow is there further beyond thee.
And thou shalt hear what they say; and, afterward shall thy hands be strengthened to go down unto the host. And he went down with Phurah his servant unto the outside of the armed men that were in the host.
Then Saul said to him, "Why did you conspire against me, you and the son of Jesse, when you gave to him bread and a sword, and by inquiring of God for him so that he might arise against me to ambush me as hast been done this day?"
And Moab was humbled that day under the hand of Israel: and the land rested eighty years.
And David passeth over to the other side, and standeth on the top of the hill afar off -- great the place between them;
And Jonathan goeth up on his hands, and on his feet, and the bearer of his weapons after him; and they fall before Jonathan, and the bearer of his weapons is putting to death after him.
Then Jonathan called out after the boy, "Quick, hurry, do not linger!" And Jonathan's servant collected the arrows and came to his master.
For there was a tent made; the first, wherein was the candlestick, and the table, and the shewbread; which is called the sanctuary.
And he said to David, You are right and I am wrong; for you have given me back good, but I have given you evil.
And the men of Ephraim say unto him, `What this thing thou hast done to us -- not to call for us when thou didst go to fight with Midian?' and they strive with him severely;
And Jephthah said unto the elders of Gilead, Did not ye hate me, and thrust me out of my father's house? and why are ye come unto me now when ye are in distress?
For you are not come to the mountain that might be touched, and a flaming fire, and a whirlwind, and darkness, and storm,
And Jonathan said to David: Come, and let us go out into the field. And when they were both of them gone out into the field,
And the words were heard that David spoke, and they rehearsed them before Saul; and he sent for him.
Then Jonathan said to him, to-morrow is the new moon: and it will be seen that you are not present, for there will be no one in your seat.
And he said to her, Take your place at the door of the tent, and if anyone comes and says to you, Is there any man here, say, No.
And to the church of the first-born, who are written in the heavens, and to God the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect,
So he gave the silver back to his mother. And his mother took two hundred shekels of silver and gave them to a metal-worker who made a pictured image and a metal image from them: and it was in the house of Micah.
And Deborah said to Barak, "Get out! This is the day that Yahweh hast given Sisera into your hand. Has Yahweh not gone out before you?" So Barak went out from Mount Tabor with ten thousand men following him.
`Afterwards thou dost come unto the hill of God, where the garrison of the Philistines , and it cometh to pass, at thy coming in thither to the city, that thou hast met a band of prophets coming down from the high place, and before them psaltery, and tabret and the pipe, and harp, and they are prophesying;
And the children of Israel set ambushes round about the city of Gabaa:
may we draw near with a true heart, in full assurance of faith, having the hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and having the body its fill with pure water;
Because thou shalt conceive and bear a son, and no razor shall touch his head: for he shall be a Nazirite of God, from his infancy, and from his mother's womb, and he shall begin to deliver Israel from the hands of the Philistines.
But if you are not able to give me the answer, then you will have to give me thirty linen robes and thirty changes of clothing. And they said to him, Put your hard question and let us see what it is.
And crying out to the people and to Abner, the son of Ner, David said, Have you no answer to give, Abner? Then Abner said, Who is that crying out to the king?
And he came to the sheepcotes by the way, where was a cave; and Saul went in to cover his feet: and David and his men remained in the sides of the cave.
Then Gideon went in and made ready a young goat, and with an ephah of meal he made unleavened cakes: he put the food in a basket and the soup in which it had been cooked he put in a pot, and he took it out to him under the oak-tree and gave it to him there.
But the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not to the words of Jephthah that he had sent him.
And David saith unto him, `Dost thou bring me down unto this troop?' and he saith, `Swear to me by God -- thou dost not put me to death, nor dost thou shut me up into the hand of my lord -- and I bring thee down unto this troop.'
And he said to his servant, Come, let us go forth to one of these places, stopping for the night in Gibeah or Ramah.
And even Jehovah, addeth to call again Samuel, and Samuel riseth and goeth unto Eli, and saith, `Here I, for thou hast called for me;' and he saith, `I have not called, my son, turn back, lie down.'
And I treat you, brethren, suffer the word of exhortation, for also through few words I have written unto you.
And there was the appointed sign to the men of Israel with the ambush -- their causing to go up a great roll of smoke from the city.
The priest said, "Behold, the sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom you killed in the valley of Elah, is here wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod. If you would like to take that, take it; for there is no other except that here." David said, "There is none like that. Give it to me."
Then Saul said unto his servants that stood about him, Hear now, ye Benjamites; will the son of Jesse give every one of you fields and vineyards, and make you all captains of thousands and captains of hundreds;
Because thou didst not hearken to the voice of Jehovah, and didst not execute his fierce anger upon Amalek, therefore hast even Jehovah, done this thing to thee this day.
Then the five men who went to spy out the country of Laish answered, and said to their brothers, "Do you know that there is in these houses an ephod, and teraphim, and an engraved image, and a molten image? Now therefore consider what you have to do."
And he said to them: I desire one request of you: Give me the earlets of your spoils. For the Ismaelites were accustomed to wear golden earlets.
For they all seek their own, not the things of Jesus Christ.
And when David's servants came to Carmel, to Abigail, they said to her, David hast sent us to you to take you to him as his wife.
And the woman seeth Samuel, and crieth with a loud voice, and the woman speaketh unto Saul, saying, `Why hast thou deceived me -- and thou Saul?'
And Othoniel the son of Cenez, the younger brother of Caleb, having taken it, he gave him Axa his daughter to wife.
Now at the time that Saul saw David going out against the Philistines, he said to Abner the captain of the army; Of what family is this young man descended, Abner? And Abner said: As thy soul liveth, O king, I know not.
Therefore he was obligated to be made like his brothers in all respects, in order that he could become a merciful and faithful high priest in the things relating to God, in order to make atonement for the sins of the people.
And David said to Saul: Who am I, or what is my life, or my father's family in Israel, that I should be son-in-law of the king?
And it came to pass when the judge died, that they turned back and corrupted themselves more than their fathers, in following other gods to serve them, and to bow down to them: they ceased not from their own doings, nor from their stubborn way.
Now Jehovah had apprised Samuel one day before Saul came, saying,
And Jephthah said to them, "I and my people were engaged in great conflict with the children of Ammon; I called you, but you did not deliver me from their hand.
and they possess all the border of the Amorite from of the Arnon, and unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness, and unto the Jordan.
And later, David was full of regret for noontide Saul's skirt.
and if ye are apart from chastening, of which all have become partakers, then bastards are ye, and not sons.
And the people said to Samuel: Who is he that said: Shall Saul reign over us? Bring the men and we will kill them.
Her husband arose, and went after her, to speak kindly to her, to bring her again, having his servant with him, and a couple of donkeys. She brought him into her father's house; and when the father of the young lady saw him, he rejoiced to meet him.
Then the angel of Jehovah put forth the end of the staff that was in his hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened cakes; and there rose up fire out of the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened cakes. Then the angel of Jehovah departed out of his sight.
And he saith unto them, `A witness even Jehovah, against you: and a witness His anointed this day, that ye have not found anything in my hand;' and they say, `A witness.'
I would go out after it and put it down and save the sheep from itself mouth. If it rose against me, I would grab it by itself beard and put it down and kill it.
And had made the women and all who were there, small and great, prisoners; they had not put any of them to death, but had taken them all away.
And Saul came to the city of the Amalekites, and set an ambush in the valley.
Do not take your servant to be a good-for-nothing woman; for my words have come from my stored-up sorrow and pain.
And Samson said, With the jawbone of an ass, a heap, two heaps, With the jawbone of an ass have I slain a thousand men.
So the people sent to Shiloh, that they might bring from thence the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, which dwelleth between the cherubim: and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were there with the ark of the covenant of God.
And Samuel saw Saul no more until the day of his death; for Samuel mourned over Saul; and Jehovah repented that he had made Saul king over Israel.
And I will have mercy on their evil-doing, and I will not keep their sins in mind.
Gaal went out before the men of Shechem, and fought with Abimelech.
according as it is righteous for me to think this in behalf of you all, because of my having you in the heart, both in my bonds, and the defence and confirmation of the good news, all of you being fellow-partakers with me of grace.
again He doth limit a certain day, `To-day,' (in David saying, after so long a time,) as it hath been said, `To-day, if His voice ye may hear, ye may not harden your hearts,'
For we who have believed do enter into that rest, even as he hast said, "As I swore in my wrath, they will not enter into my rest"; although the works were finished from the foundation of the world.
And it came to pass, when he saw her, that he rent his clothes, and said, Alas, my daughter! thou hast brought me very low, and thou art one of them that trouble me; for I have opened my mouth unto Jehovah, and I cannot go back.
They will say, Peace be with you, and will give you two cakes of bread, which you are to take from them.
The bows of the mighty men are broken, and they that stumbled are girded with strength.
They asked him: Say then, Scibboleth, which is interpreted, An ear of grain. But he answered, Sibboleth, not being able to express an ear of grain by the same letter. Then presently they took him and killed him in the very passage of the Jordan. And there fell at that time of Ephraim two and forty thousand.
Now the people of Beth Shemesh were reaping the wheat harvest in the valley. They lifted their eyes and saw the ark, and they were glad to see it.
And Saul said: May God do so and so to me, and add still more: for dying thou shalt die, O Jonathan.
if anyhow I may attain to the the rising of the dead.
And so patiently enduring he obtained promise.
And in the morning the man arose, and opened the door that he might end the journey he had begun: and behold his concubine lay before the door with her hands spread on the threshold.
and captureth a young man of the men of Succoth, and asketh him, and he writeth unto him the heads of Succoth, and itself elders -- seventy and seven men.
that the violence done to the threescore and ten sons of Jerubbaal might come, and their blood be laid upon Abimelech their brother, which slew them; and upon the men of Shechem, which aided him in killing his brethren.
If indeed then perfection were by the Levitical priesthood, for the people had their law given to them in connexion with *it*, what need [was there] still that a different priest should arise according to the ordinance of Melchisedec, and not be named after the order of Aaron?
For if this had been possible, would there not have been an end of those offerings, because the worshippers would have been made completely clean and would have been no longer conscious of sins?
But in those sacrifices there is a yearly reminder of sins.
And the people cometh in unto the camp, and the elders of Israel say, `Why hath even Jehovah, smitten us to-day before the Philistines? we take unto us from Shiloh the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, and it cometh into our midst, and He doth save us out of the hand of our enemies.'
And Manoah said, When thy words then come to pass, what shall be the child's manner and his doing?
Now therefore, I pray thee, hearken thou also unto the voice of thy handmaid, and let me set a morsel of bread before thee; and eat, that thou mayest have strength, when thou goest on thy way.
Yahweh's angel said to Manoah, "Though you detain me, I won't eat your bread. If you will prepare a burnt-offering, you must offer it to Yahweh." For Manoah didn't know that he was Yahweh's angel.
And Gaal spake again, and said, See there come people down by the middle of the land, and another company come along by the plain of Meonenim.
And Anna said: I beseech thee, my lord, as thy soul liveth, my lord: I am that woman who stood before thee here praying to Jehovah.
Saul went on the one side of the mountain, and David and his men went on the other side of the mountain. David was hurrying to get away from Saul, while Saul and his men were closing in on David and his men to capture them.
And without faith it is not possible to be well-pleasing to him, for it is necessary for anyone who comes to God to have the belief that God is, and that he is a rewarder of all those who make a serious search for him.
and she maketh him sleep on her knees, and calleth for a man, and shaveth the seven locks of his head, and beginneth to afflict him, and his power turneth aside from off him;
And David goeth, and his men, to Keilah, and fighteth with the Philistines, and leadeth away their cattle, and smiteth among them -- a great smiting, and David saveth the inhabitants of Keilah.
And this is an image of the present time; when the offerings which are given are not able to make the heart of the worshipper completely clean,
And faith is of things hoped for a confidence, of matters not seen a conviction,
And when Gedeon was come to the the Jordan, he passed over it with the three hundred men, that were with him: who were so weary that they could not pursue after them that fled.
For he looked for a city that hath foundations; whose builder and maker is God.
But the angel of Jehovah did no more appear to Manoah and to his wife. Then Manoah knew that he was an angel of Jehovah.
And all the men of Sichem were gathered together, and all the families of the city of Mello: and they went and made Abimelech king, by the oak that stood in Sichem.
Went out into the fields, desolation the vineyards, and treading down the grapes: and singing and dancing they went into the temple of their god, and in their banquets and cups they cursed Abimelech.
Out of Ephraim those whose root was in Amalek; After thee was Benjamin among thy peoples. Out of Machir came down deputies, And out of Zebulun they that handled the staff of the governor.
Jehovah killeth, and maketh alive: he bringeth down to Sheol, and bringeth up.
For, lo, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son; and no razor shall come on his head: for the child shall be a Nazirite unto God from the womb; and he shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
And may the God of peace, who brought back from the dead the great shepherd of the sheep, our Lord Jesus Christ, in the blood of the everlasting testament,
and ye have forgotten the exhortation that doth speak fully with you as with sons, `My son, be not despising chastening of Jehovah, nor be faint, being reproved by him,
Saul said, I will give her to him, that she may be a snare to him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him. Therefore Saul said to David, "You shall to-day be my son-in-law a second time."
Yahweh, the God of Israel, delivered Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they struck them. So Israel possessed all the land of the Amorites, the inhabitants of that country.
Wherefore Saul returned from pursuing after David, and went against the Philistines. therefore they called that place Selahammahlekoth.
Because I will be merciful to their iniquities, and their sins I will remember no more.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and slew of them thirty men, and took their spoil, and gave the changes of garments unto them that explained the riddle. And his anger was kindled, and he went up to his father's house.
But the men would not hearken to him; and the man took his concubine, and brought her forth to them; and they knew her, and abused her all the night until the morning; and let her go when the morning-dawn arose.
whose end is destruction, whose god is the belly, and whose glory is in their shame, who think about earthly things.
The wise amongst her princesses answer , Yea, she returneth answer to herself,
And what shall I more say? for the time would fail me to tell of Gedeon, and of Barak, and of Samson, and of Jephthae; of David also, and Samuel, and of the prophets:
These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off, and were persuaded of them, and embraced them, and confessed that they were sojourners and pilgrims on the earth.
Then there was terror in the camp, in the open field, and among all the army of the garrison. Even the raiders trembled. The earth trembled, and it became a very great panic.
And it was clear to Saul that Jehovah was with David; and he was loved by all Israel.
The three oldest sons of Jesse had gone after Saul to the battle; and the names of his three sons who went to the battle were Eliab the first-born, and next to him Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
When they were by the house of Micah, they knew the voice of the young man, the Levite; and they turned in thither, and said to him, Who brought thee hither? and what doest thou in this ? and what hast thou here?
He also stripped off his clothes and prophesied before Samuel. He lay naked all that day and all night. Therefore they say, "Is Saul also among the prophets?"
For I am certain of this very thing, that he through whom the good work was started in you will make it complete till the day of Jesus Christ:
and Saul addeth to be afraid of the presence of David yet; and Saul is an enemy with David all the days.
And after Abimelech there arose to defend Israel Tola the son of Puah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar: and he dwelt in Shamir in mount Ephraim.
Then Saul recognized David's voice and said, "Is this your voice, my son David?" And David said, "It is my voice, my lord the king."
And Saul's servants spake these words in the ears of David. And David said, Seemeth it to you a light thing to be a king's son in law, seeing that I am a poor man, And lightly esteemed?
For every high priest taken from among men is ordained for men in things pertaining to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins:
The men did so, and took two milk cows, and tied them to the cart, and shut up their calves at home.
And Micah said unto him, Dwell with me, and be unto me a father and a priest, and I will give thee ten shekels of silver by the year, and a suit of apparel, and thy victuals. So the Levite went in.
Then Eli answered and said, Go in peace: and the God of Israel grant thee thy petition that thou hast asked of him.
As they have done from the first, from the day when I took them out of Egypt till this day, turning away from me and worshipping other gods, so now they are acting in the same way to you.
So then, rise early in the morning, you and the servants of your lord who came with you. When you rise early in the morning and it is light enough for you, leave.
Go, I pray you, prepare again, and know and see his place where his dwelt is, and who hath seen him there: for it is told me that he dealeth very subtilly.
When the men of Israel saw that they were in trouble (for the people were distressed), then the people hid themselves in caves, in the thickets, in rocks, in tombs, and in pits.
And it cometh to pass, at the coming in of the ark of the covenant of Jehovah unto the camp, that all Israel shout -- a great shout -- and the earth is moved.
And when his armorbearer saw this, to wit, that Saul was dead, he also fell upon his sword and died with him.
Her father said, "I really thought that you hated her, so I gave her to your companion. Is not her younger sister more beautiful than she be? Please, take her instead."
And Saul and all the people that were with him were called together, and they came to the battle; and behold, every man's sword was against his fellow, a very great confusion.
Now the Philistines got their hosts together for war, and came together at Socoh in the land of Judah, and took up their position between Socoh and Azekah in Ephes-dammim.
And Samuel said to Saul: I will not return with thee, because thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah hath rejected thee from being king over Israel.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: I have considered what Amalek did to Israel, how he set himself against him in the way, when he came up from Egypt.
Then Hannah got up after eating and drinking at Shiloh. (Now Eli the priest was sitting on his chair by the doorpost of the temple of Yahweh.)
And when Joshua had let the people go, the children of Israel went every man unto his inheritance to possess the land.
And she bare a son, and called his name Samson. And the child grew, and Jehovah blessed him.
The things which you learned, receive, heard, and saw in me: do these things, and the God of peace will be with you.
And Jonathan stripped himself of the coat with which he was thyself, and gave it to David, and the rest of his garments, even to his sword, and to his bow, and to his girdle.
So Samuel turned again after Saul; and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
Let us therefore give diligence to enter into that rest, lest anyone fall after the same example of disobedience.
And after a time he returned to take her, and he turned aside to see the carcass of the lion; and, behold, there was a swarms of bees and honey in the carcass of the lion.
and Samson's wife becometh his companion's, who his friend.
Will the men of Keilah deliver me up into his hand? will Saul come down, as thy servant hath heard? O Jehovah, the God of Israel, I beseech thee, tell thy servant. And Jehovah said, He will come down.
He raises up the poor from the dust. From the ash heap he lifts up the needy, to cause them to sit with noble people and to cause them to inherit a seat of honor. For the pillars of the earth belong to Yahweh and he hast set the inhabited world on them.
And the name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam, the daughter of Ahimaaz; and the name of the captain of his host was Abner, the son of Ner, Saul's uncle.
Let your gentleness be known of all men. Jehovah near.
And they told David, speaking: Behold the Philistines fight against Ceila, and they rob the barns.
Swear now therefore unto me by Jehovah, that thou wilt not cut off my seed after me, and that thou wilt not destroy my name out of my father's house.
And the ambush is abiding with her in an inner chamber, and she saith unto him, `Philistines upon thee, Samson;' and he breaketh the withs as a thread of tow is broken in itself smelling fire, and his power hath not been known.
And Saul thought, "I will give her to him, so that she may be a snare for him and the hand of the Philistines may be against him." So Saul said to David, "For a second time you can become my son-in-law today."
She said, "I will surely go with you. Nevertheless, the journey that you take won't be for your honor; for Yahweh will sell Sisera into a woman's hand." Deborah arose, and went with Barak to Kedesh.
And he had two wives: the name of the one was Hannah, and the name of the other Peninnah; and Peninnah had children, but Hannah had no children.
They had come to the land of Zuph when Saul said to his servant that was with him, Come, and let us return; lest my father give up the asses, and be anxious about us.
Wherefore I have not sinned against thee, but thou doest me wrong to war against me: Jehovah the Judge be judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
And they arose and came to the house of God, that is, to Silo: and they consulted God, and said: Who shall be in our army the first to go to the battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah answered them: Let Judah be your leader.
And his master said unto him, We will not turn aside hither into the city of a sojourner, that is not of the children of Israel; we will pass over to Gibeah.
And Eliab, his eldest brother, heard while he spoke to the men; and Eliab's anger was kindled against David, and he said, Why art thou come down? and with whom hast thou left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride and the naughtiness of thy heart; for thou art come down that thou mightest see the battle.
Then Nahash the Ammonite came up, and encamped against Jabesh Gilead: and all the men of Jabesh said to Nahash, "Make a covenant with us, and we will serve you."
And the messenger of even Jehovah, saith unto Manoah, `Of all that I said unto the woman let her take heed;
And he said unto them, Jehovah is witness against you, and his anointed is witness this day, that ye have not found ought in my hand. And they answered, He is witness.
And Jehovah said to him, I will certainly be with thee; and thou shalt smite Midian as one man.
having confidence of this very thing, that he who hast begun in you a good work will complete it unto Jesus Christ's day:
And David's young men came, and spoke to Nabal according to all these words in the name of David, and ceased.
And he said, They were my brethren, the sons of my mother. Jehovah liveth, if ye had saved them alive, I would not slay you.
Then David came to the two hundred men who had been too exhausted to follow David; they had left them behind at the Wadi Besor. They went out to meet David and to meet the people who were with him. David came near with the people and asked them how they were doing.
Now Eli was very old, and heard all that his sons did unto all Israel; and how they lay with the women that assembled at the door of the tent of meeting.
Moreover his mother made him a little coat, and brought it to him from year to year; when she came up with her husband to offer the yearly sacrifice.
And Jehovah cometh, and stationeth Himself, and calleth as time by time, `Samuel, Samuel;' and Samuel saith, `Speak, for Thy servant if hearing.'
But we have dry grass and food for our asses, as well as bread and wine for me, and for the woman, and for the young man with us: we have no need of anything.
Then Saul being angry against Jonathan said to him: Thou son of a woman that is the ravisher of a man, do I not know that thou lovest the son of Isai to thy own confusion and to the confusion of thy shameless mother?
And Saul said to Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan told him and said, With the end of the staff which is in my hand I tasted a little honey, behold, I must die!
Now therefore, my lord, as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, seeing Jehovah hath withholden thee from coming to shed blood, and from avenging thyself with thine own hand, now let thine enemies, and they that seek evil to my lord, be as Nabal.
And there went out a man baseborn from the camp of the Philistines named Goliath, of Geth, whose height was six cubits and a span;
And by how much [it was] not without the swearing of an oath,
And he parteth the three hundred men three detachments, and putteth trumpets into the hand of all of them, and empty pitchers, and lamps within the pitchers.
If it goes by the land of Israel to Beth-shemesh, then this great evil is his work; but if not, then we may be certain that the evil was not his doing, but was the working of chance.
And they took as wives the daughters of these nations and gave their daughters to their sons, and became servants to their gods.
And the people take the provision in their hand, and their trumpets, and every man of Israel he hath sent away, each to his booths; and on the three hundred men he hath kept stronghold, and the camp of Midian hath been by him at the lower part of the valley.
So when he had turned his back to go from Samuel, God gave unto him another heart, and all these things came to pass that day.
Warfare was severe against the Philistines all the days of Saul. Whenever Saul saw anyone who was a mighty warrior or any brave man, he conscripted him into his service.
That by two immutable things, in which it was impossible for God to lie, we might have a strong consolation, who have fled for refuge to lay hold upon the hope set before us:
that this shall be no stumblingblock to thee, nor stumbling-block of heart for my lord, either that thou hast shed blood without cause, or that my lord hast avenged himself. And when Jehovah shall deal well with my lord, then remember thy handmaid.
Then all the corrupt and useless men among the men who went with David reacted and said, "Because they did not go with us, we will not give them anything from the plunder which we recovered, except each man may take his own wife and children. They must take them along and go!"
They gave Hebron to Caleb just as Moses said, and he drove out the three sons of Anak from there.
The same night Jehovah said to him, Up! go down now against their army, for I have given them into your hands.
He had thirty sons. He gave his thirty daughters away in marriage outside his clan and brought in from outside thirty young women for his sons. He judged Israel for seven years.
And the men of Israel were called together out of Naphtali, and out of Asher, and out of all Manasseh, and pursued after Midian.
And when they were on the way up to the village, they saw some young girls going out to get water and said to them, Is the seer here?
to whom also Abraham apportioned a tenth of everythingin the first place, his name is translated "king of righteousness," and then also "king of Salem," that is, "king of peace";
concerning whom we have much discourse and of hard explanation to say, since ye have become dull of hearing,
While it is said, To-day if you shall hear his voice, harden not your hearts in that provocation.
Now every high priest is given authority to take to God the things which are given and to make offerings; so that it is necessary for this man, like them, to have something for an thereof.
and also unto their judges they have not hearkened, but have gone a-whoring after other gods, and bow themselves to them; they have turned aside haste out of the way which their fathers walked to obey the commands of even Jehovah, -- they have not done so.
For you need endurance so that, having done the will of God, you may receive the promise.
So David received from her hand that which she had brought him. Then he said to her, "Go up in peace to your house. Behold, I have listened to your voice, and have granted your request."
And being made perfect, he became a God of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him;
Why then do you harden your hearts the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their hearts? When he had worked wonderfully among them, didn't they let the people go, and they departed?
So Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger, and did eat no food the second day of the month: for he was grieved for David, because his father had done him shame.
according to my earnest expectation and hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, and in all freedom, as always, also now Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether through life or through death,
And they took the victuals of the people in their hand, and their trumpets; and all the men of Israel he sent away, every man to his tent, but retained the three hundred men. Now the camp of Midian was under him in the valley.
Now it fell on a day, that Jonathan the son of Saul said to the young man who bore his armor, "Come, and let us go over to the Philistines' garrison, that is on the other side." But he didn't tell his father.
And Barak saith unto her, `If thou dost go with me, then I have gone; and if thou dost not go with me, I do not go;'
And Samson went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines.
and now, what is there under thy hand? five loaves give into my hand, or that which is found.'
But David pursued, he and four hundred men; for two hundred stayed behind, who were so faint that they couldn't go over the brook Besor.
And they returned to their brethren in Saraa and Esthaol, who asked them what they had done? to whom they answered:
even Jehovah, therefore shall be judge, and judge between me and thee, and see, and plead my cause, and do me righteousness [in delivering me] out of thy hand.
And He smiteth among the men of Beth-Shemesh, for they looked into the ark of Jehovah, yea, He smiteth among the people seventy men -- fifty chief men; and the people mourn, because Jehovah smote among the people -- a great smiting.
And Saul's servants said these things to David. And David said, Does it seem to you a small thing to be the king's son-in-law, seeing that I am a poor man, of no great name?
So then, my loved ones, as you have at all times done what I say, not only when I am present, but now much more when I am not with you, give yourselves to working out your salvation with fear in your heart;
Behold, you children of Israel, all of you, give here your counsel and counsel."
Then Jehovah sent sudden fear on Benjamin before Israel; and that day the children of Israel put to death twenty-five thousand, one hundred men of Benjamin, all of them swordsmen.
And Jehovah discomfited Sisera, and all the chariots, and all the army, with the edge of the sword before Barak; and Sisera got down from chariot, and fled on foot.
And, truly, the good news came to us, even as it did to them; but the hearing of the word did them no good, because they were not united in faith with the true hearers.
And the land had rest forty years, and Othoniel the son of Cenez died.
And when they that remained of Benjamin saw this, they fled into the wilderness and made towards the rock that is called Remmon. In that flight, also as they were straggling and going different ways, they slew of them five thousand men. And as they went farther, they still pursued them, and slew also other two thousand.
saying, I will declare thy name to my brethren; in midst of assembly will I sing thy praises.
But his wife said to him, "If Yahweh were pleased to kill us, he wouldn't received a burnt-offering and a meal offering at our hand, and he wouldn't he have shown us all these things, nor would he told us such things as these at this time."
Now faith is substantiating of things hoped for, conviction of things not seen.
And David said to Saul, Let no man's heart fail because of him: thy servant will go and fight with this Philistine.
For God is my witness, how my love goes out to you all in the loving mercies of Christ Jesus.
and the land resteth forty years. And Othniel son of Kenaz dieth,
And Manasseh hath not traded Beth-Shean and itself towns, and Taanach and itself towns, and the inhabitants of Dor and itself towns, and the inhabitants of Iblaim and itself towns, and the inhabitants of Megiddo and itself towns, and the Canaanite is desirous to dwell in that land;
And Samuel arose and went up from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the people that were found with him, about six hundred men.
Now therefore, proclaim in the ears of the people, saying, Whosoever is fearful and afraid, let him return and depart early from mount Gilead. And there returned of the people twenty and two thousand; and there remained ten thousand.
Hannah prayed, and said: "My heart exults in Yahweh! My horn is exalted in Yahweh. My mouth is enlarged over my enemies, because I rejoice in your salvation.
Samuel called the people together to Yahweh to Mizpah;
For I thy servant have killed both a lion and a bear: and this uncircumcised Philistine shall be also as one of them. I will go now, and take away the reproach of the people; for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, who hath dared to curse the army of the living God?
And Samuel saith unto him, `Jehovah hath rent the kingdom of Israel from thee to-day, and given it to thy neighbor who is better than thou;
Then she said, The Philistines are on you, Samson. And roused from his sleep, he said, I will go out as at the other times, shaking myself free. But he was not conscious that Jehovah had gone from him.
Gideon had seventy sons conceived from his body, for he had many wives.
When he had set the torches on fire, he let them go into the standing grain of the Philistines, and burnt up both the shocks and the standing grain, and also the olive groves.
And David was the youngest: and the three oldest were with Saul's army.
Seeing that we may not give them our daughters as women? For the children of Israel had taken an oath, saying, Cursed is he who gives a wife to Benjamin.
and the haft also went in after the shoulder-blade, And the fat closed upon the blade; for he did not draw the sword out of his belly, and it came out between the legs.
So David received of her hand what she had brought him, and said to her, Go up in peace to thy house; see, I have hearkened to thy voice, and have accepted thy person.
The brook Kishion swept them away, The brook most ancient -- the brook Kishon. Thou dost tread down strength, O my soul!
And Saul and the men of Israel came together and took up their position in the valley of Elah, and put their forces in order against the Philistines.
and Benjamin turneth back at that time, and they give to them the women whom they have kept alive of the women of Jabesh-Gilead, and they have not found for [all of] them so.
The ambushers hurried, and rushed on Gibeah; then the ambushers spread out, and struck all the city with the edge of the sword.
him, indeed, therefore, I hope to send, when I may see through the things concerning me -- immediately;
A man who disregards Moses' law dies without compassion on the word of two or three witnesses.
Now when Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled to David at Keilah, he went down with an ephod in his hand.
Both of them revealed themselves to the garrison of the Philistines; and the Philistines said, "Behold, the Hebrews are coming out of the clefts where they had hidden themselves!"
And Jehovah was with Judah; and he took possession of the hill-country, for he did not take possession of the valley, because they had chariots of iron.
And when he came to Lehi, the Philistines came out, meeting him with loud cries; then the spirit of Jehovah came rushing on him, and the cords on his arms became like grass which hast been burned with fire, and the bands came falling off his hands.
`And if ye do not hearken to the voice of Jehovah -- then ye have provoked the mouth of Jehovah, and the hand of Jehovah hath been against you, and against your fathers.
Saul, and Jonathan his son, and the people who were present with them, stayed in Geba of Benjamin: but the Philistines encamped in Michmash.
When David and his men came to the city, behold, it was burned with fire; and their wives, their sons, and their daughters were taken captive.
And the sons of Israel rise in the morning, and encamp against Gibeah,
Receive him therefore in Jehovah with all gladness; and hold such in reputation:
And Jephthah gathered together all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim; and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because they said, Ye, Gilead, ye are fugitives of Ephraim in the midst of Ephraim, in the midst of Manasseh.
And there was a man at Maon, whose business was at Carmel; and the man was very great, and he had three thousand sheep and a thousand goats; and he was shearing his sheep at Carmel.
And his father went down to the woman, and Samson made there a feast; for so used the young men to do.
Then his father and mother said to him, Is there no woman among the daughters of your relations or among all my people, that you have to go for your wife to the Philistines, who are without circumcision? But Samson said to his father, Get her for me, for she is pleasing to me.
Ye may not cast away, then, your boldness, which hath great recompense of reward,
Then David said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, news hast been given to your servant that it is Saul's purpose to come to Keilah and send destruction on the village because of me.
and Samuel saith, `Gather all Israel to Mizpeh, and I pray for you unto Jehovah.'
then he hast said, "Behold, I have come to do your will." He takes away the first in order to establish the second,
The Philistines took God's ark, and brought it into the house of Dagon, and set it by Dagon.
He said to his men, "Yahweh forbid that I should do this thing to my lord, Yahweh's anointed, to stretch out my hand against him, since he is Yahweh's anointed."
Then Samuel went up from Gilgal and the rest of the people went up after Saul against the men of war, and they came from Gilgal to Gibeah in the land of Benjamin: and Saul took the number of the people who were with him, about six hundred men.
Have no cares; but in everything with prayer and praise put your requests before God.
Neither by the blood of goats, or of calves, but by his own blood, entered once into the holies, having obtained eternal redemption.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah: who strengthened against them Eglon king of Moab: because they did evil in his sight.
The men who did not die were struck with the tumors, so that the cry of the city for help went up to heaven.
So they turned and departed, and put the little ones and the cattle and the carriage before them.
And there was no deliverer, for it was far from Sidon, and they had nothing to do with man; and it in the valley that is by Beth-rehob. And they built the city and dwelt therein.
David said to Abishai, "Don't destroy him; for who can stretch out his hand against Yahweh's anointed, and be guiltless?"
She is to have nothing which comes from the vine for her food, and let her take no wine or strong drink or anything which is unclean; let her take care to do all I have given her orders to do.
And the lords of the Philistines were marching with their hundreds and their of thousands, but David and his men were in the rear with Achis.
He will take the best of your fields and your vineyards and your olive-trees and will give them to his servants.
So the Philistines took him and put out his eyes; then they took him down to Gaza, and, chaining him with bands of brass, put him to work crushing grain in the prison-house.
Samson's wife wept before him, and said, "You just hate me, and don't love me. You've told a riddle to the children of my people, and haven't told it to me." He said to her, "Behold, I haven't told my father or my mother, so why should I tell you?"
And when his armor bearer saw that Saul was dead, he also fell on his sword and died with him.
Then they said to him, Now say Shibboleth; and he said Sibboleth, and was not able to say it in the right way; then they took him and put him to death at the crossing-places of the Jordan; and at that time forty-two thousand Ephraim were put to death.
But a certain fearful looking for of justice and fiery indignation, and it shall devour the adversaries.
And after the second veil, the tabernacle, which is called the holy of holies:
David therefore sent out spies, and understood that Saul was come in very doing.
And the woman came and told her husband, saying, "A man of God came to me, and his appearance was like the appearance of an angel of God, very awesome. I did not ask him from where he came, and he did not tell me his name.
and he sent messengers to Abimelech craftily, saying, Behold, Gaal the son of Ebed and his brethren are come to Shechem, and behold, they shut up the city against thee;
For every high priest is ordained to offer gifts and sacrifices: wherefore it is of necessities that this man have somewhat also to offer.
And David went in flight from Naioth in Ramah and came to Jonathan and said, What have I done? What is my matter and my sin against your father that he is attempting to take my life?
If only this people were in my command! Then I would remove Abimelech, and I would have said, 'Increase your army and come out!'"
And he called unto him Zebulun and Nepbtali, and went up with ten thousand fighting men, having Debbora in his company.
And Achish said, Whither have ye made a road to-day? And David said, Against the south of Judah, and against the south of the Jerahmeelites, and against the south of the Kenites.
Jephthah said to them, "I and my people were at great strife with the children of Ammon; and when I called you, you didn't save me out of their hand.
for he was yet in the loins of the father when Melchisedek met him.
Then the Philistines seized upon him, and straightway pulled out his eyes, and led him bound in chains to Gaza, and the shutting him up in prison made him grind.
And again he says, I will put my faith in him. And again, See, I am here, and the children which God hast given to me.
And the Levites took down the ark of God, and the little vial that was at the side of it, wherein were the vessels of gold, and they put them upon the great stone. The men of Bethsames offered holocausts and sacrificed victims that day to Jehovah.
When Saul realized that Yahweh was with David and his own daughter Michal loved him,
And David recovered all that Amalekite had taken: and David recovered his two wives.
and he thirsteth exceedingly, and calleth unto Jehovah, and saith, `Thou -- Thou hast given by the hand of Thy servant this great salvation; and now, I die with thirst, and have fallen into the hand of the uncircumcised.'
So Samuel did what Yahweh spoken. He came to Beth-lehem, and the elders of the city came trembling to meet him. They said, "Have you come in peace?"
Wo to us, who deliver us out of the hand of these honorable gods? these the gods who are smiting the Egyptians with every plague in the wilderness.
Now therefore deliver up the men, the base fellows who are in Gibeah, that we may put them to death, and put away the evil from Israel." But Benjamin would not listen to the voice of their brothers the children of Israel.
And David was the youngest; and the three eldest had followed Saul.
And, Thou, Lord, in the beginning hast laid the foundation of the earth; and the heavens are the works of thine hands:
Then Ehud put forth his left hand, and took the sword from his right hip, and thrust it into his belly;
And Nahash the Ammonite answered them, On this condition will I make a covenant with you, that I may thrust out all your right eyes, and lay it for a reproach upon all Israel.
in these last days he hast spoken to us by a Son, whom he appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the world,
When thou art departed from me to day, then thou shalt find two men by Rachel's sepulchre in the border of Benjamin at Zelzah; and they will say unto thee, The asses which thou wentest to seek are found: and, lo, thy father hath left the care of the asses, and sorroweth for you, saying, What shall I do for my son?
So also Christ glorified not himself to be made a high priest; But he that said unto him, Thou art my Son, to day have I begotten thee.
Then Jonathan sent for David and gave him word of all these things. And Jonathan took David to Saul, who kept him by his side as in the past.
Of the angels he says, "Who makes his angels winds, and his servants a flame of fire."
And she fastened it with the pin, and said to him, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson! And he awoke out of his sleep, and tore out the pin of the beam, and the web.
And Samson said to them, If ye act thus, for a certainty I will avenge myself on you, and then I will cease.
And because she nagged him day after day with its words, and pestered him, his soul grew impatient to the point of death.
The Israelites did evil in the sight of Yahweh, and they served the Baals.
But Nahash the Ammonite said to them, "On this condition I will make a treaty with you, by gouging out the right eye of each of you, so that I can make it a disgrace for all Israel."
And the sons of Benjamin see that they have been smitten -- and the men of Israel give place to Benjamin, for they have trusted unto the ambush which they had set against Gibeah,
And Joshua let the people go away, and the children of Israel went, every man to his heritage, to take the land for themselves.
But David abode in the wilderness in strongholds, and he remained in the mountain of the wilderness of Ziph, in a woody hill. And Saul sought him always: but Jehovah delivered him not into his hands.
But the hand of Jehovah was hard on the people of Ashdod, and he sent disease on them through all the country of Ashdod.
By faith Jacob, as he was dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph and worshiped, Leaning on the top of his staff.
And Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on that side of the mountain; and David made haste to get away from Saul; and Saul and his men sought to surround David and his men to take them.
And Eli answereth and saith, `Go in peace, and the God of Israel doth give thy petition which thou hast asked of Him.'
On the next day the people rose early, and they built there an altar and offered burnt-offerings and fellowship offerings.
For if the blood of goats and bulls, and a heifer's ashes sprinkling the defiled, sanctifies for the purity of the flesh,
whose voice shook the earth then, but now he hast promised, saying, "Yet once more I will shake not only the earth, but also the heavens."
Jonathan said to David, "Go in peace, because we have sworn, the two of us, an oath in the name of Yahweh, saying, "Yahweh will be between me and you and between my offspring and your offspring forever." Then he bought up and left, and Jonathan went into the city.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he said: Behold this nation hath made void my covenant, which I had made with their fathers, and hath despised to hearken to my voice:
The Sidonians also, and Amalek and Maon oppressed you, and ye cried to me, and I saved you out of their hand.
The stock of his spear was as long as a cloth-worker's rod, and itself head was made of six hundred shekels' weight of iron: and one went before him with his body-cover.
[And it was told] the Gazites, saying, Samson is come hither. And they surrounded , and laid wait for him all night at the gate of the city, and were quiet all the night, saying, In the morning light we will kill him.
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and put themselves in array against Gibeah, as at the other times.
No other is holy as Jehovah, for there is no God but you: there is no Rock like our God.
And there came an angel of Jehovah, and sat under the oak which was in Ophrah, that pertaineth unto Joash the Abiezrite: and his son Gideon threshed wheat by the winepress, to hide it from the Midianites.
And Samuel saith unto Jesse, `Are the young men finished?' and he saith, `Yet hath been left the youngest; and lo, he delighteth himself among the flock;' and Samuel saith unto Jesse, `Send and take him, for we do not turn round till his coming in hither.'
And Jonathan saith unto David, `Jehovah, God of Israel -- when I search my father, about time to-morrow the third , and lo, good towards David, and I do not then send unto thee, and have uncovered thine ear --
You put all things under his feet. For in making man the ruler over all things, God did not put anything outside his high place; though we do not see everything under him now.
And the messenger answered and said, Israel hast fled before the Philistines, and there hast been also a great slaughter among the people, and thy two sons also, Hophni and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of God is taken.
Now when she came to him, he put into her mind the idea of requesting a field from her father: and she got down from her ass; and Caleb said to her, What is it?
Now when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, the Amalekite had made an attack on the South and on Ziklag, and had overcome Ziklag and put it on fire;
(Now all the people of the land used to go into the forest, for there was honey on the surface of the ground.)
But his wife said to him, If Jehovah was purposing our death, he would not have taken our burned offering and our meal thereof, or have given us such orders about the child.
Now therefore your king is here, whom you have chosen and desired: Behold, Jehovah hath given you a king.
They answered and said to them: He is: behold, he is before you, make haste now: for he came to day into the city, for there is a sacrifice of the people to-day in the high place.
So the day following the people went out into the field. And it was told Abimelech.
He sent it to those who were in Beth-el, to those who were in Ramoth of the South, to those who were in Jattir,
as saith simile of the aged, From the wicked goeth out wickedness, and my hand is not on thee.
Now I want you to know, brothers, that my circumstances have happened instead for the progress of the gospel,
but the latter out of love, knowing that I am appointed for the defense of the Good News.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah and became servants to the Baals;
And the princes of the Philistines bring up to her seven green withs which have not been dried up, and she bindeth him with them.
He will appoint them to him for captains of thousands and captains of fifties; and he will assign some to plow his ground, and to reap his harvest, and to make his instruments of war, and the instruments of his chariots.
And David said to Saul: Thy servant kept his father's sheep, and there came a lion, or a bear, and took a ram out of the midst of the flock;
In the which will, we are sanctified by the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once.
Then Saul swore to her by Yahweh, "As Yahweh lives, you will not be punished for this thing."
Are they not all ministering spirits, sent out for service on account of those who shall inherit salvation?
And as Samuel was offering up the burnt-offering, the Philistines drew near to battle against Israel: but Jehovah thundered with a great thunder on that day upon the Philistines, and discomfited them; and they were smitten before Israel.
And the five lords of the Philistines saw , and returned to Ekron the same day.
And David said to Saul, Wherefore hearest thou men's words, saying, Behold, David seeketh thy hurt?
the five lords of the Philistines, all the Canaanite, the Sidonians; and the Hivites who lived on Mount Lebanon, from Mount Baal Hermon to the entrance of Hamath.
And they gave the village the name of Dan, after Dan their father, who was the son of Israel: though the village had been named Laish at first.
And Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, having with him three thousand chosen men of Israel, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
One of the servants answered and said, "Look, I have seen a son of Jesse the Bethlehemite who is skillful in playing a stringed instrument, a brave man, a warrior, prudent in speech, and handsome. And Yahweh is with him."
By faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, by which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts: and by it he being dead yet speaketh.
And Saul taketh three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and goeth to seek David and his men, on before the rocks of the wild goats,
God, who at sundry times and in divers customs spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets,
And he said to his wife: We shall certainly die, because we have seen God.
So they sent representatives to Saul's village Gibeah, and these gave the news to the people: and all the people gave themselves to weeping.
so he took the army and divided them into three divisions, and he laid an ambush in the field. And he saw the people were coming out from the city, and he arose against them and killed them.
and David saith unto Saul, `Let no man's heart fall because of him, thy servant doth go, and hath fought with this Philistine.'
Obey your leaders and submit to them, for they keep watch over your souls as those who will give an money, so that they can do this with joy and not with groaning, for this would be unprofitable for you.
Now the name of his first-born was Joel: and the name of his second, Abiah: they were judges in Beer-sheba.
David saw that Saul had come out to seek his life. David was in the wilderness of Ziph in the wood.
Therefore Saul sent messengers to Jesse, and said, "Send me David your son, who is with the sheep."
And she said unto him, How canst thou say, I love thee, when thy heart is not with me? thou hast mocked me these three times, and hast not told me wherein thy great strength lieth.
And the Philistine said to David, Am I a dog, that you come out to me with sticks? And the Philistine put curses on David by all his gods.
And Jehovah said to Samuel, Behold, I do a thing in Israel, at which both the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle.
The Sidonians also, and the Amalekites, and the Maonites, oppressed you; and you cried to me, and I saved you out of their hand.
Thou shalt not take away thy kindness from my house for ever, when Jehovah shall have rooted out the enemies of David, every one of them from the earth, may he take away Jonathan from his house, and may Jehovah require it at the hands of David's enemies.
And the descendants of Benjamin were gathered from the cities to Gibeah to go out for battle against the Israelites.
But six hundred turned and fled toward the wilderness, to the rock of Rimmon, and they remained at the rock of Rimmon for four months.
And he maketh a force, and smiteth Amalek, and delivereth Israel out of the hand of itself spoiler.
And Saul called all the people together to war, to go down to Keilah, to besiege David and his men.
So now, get up by night, you and your people, and keep watch in the field secretly;
He learned of Yahweh for him, gave him food, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine."
Holocausts for sin did not please thee.
And Saul said to his uncle, He told us for certain that the asses were found. But of the matter of the kingdom, of which Samuel had spoken, he told him not.
And Deborah saith unto Barak, `Rise, for this the day in which Jehovah hath given Sisera into thy hand; hath not even Jehovah, gone out before thee?' And Barak goeth down from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
Then all the children of Israel, and all the people, went up, and came unto the house of God, and wept, and sat there before Jehovah, and fasted that day until even, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
She should not eat of anything that comes from the vine, or drink wine or strong drink, or eat anything unclean; she should keep all that I commanded."
And Jerubbaal (he Gideon) riseth early, and all the people who with him, and they encamp by the fountain of Harod, and the camp of Midian hath been on the south of him, on the height of Moreh, in the valley.
As Jehovah liveth who is the Saviour of Israel, if it was done by Jonathan my son, he shall surely die. In this none of the people gainsaid him.
Then Jonathan said, "Far be it from you! For if I know for certain that my father decided evil should come upon you, would I not have told it to you?"
And his daughter-in-law, the wife of Phinehas, was with child and near the time when she would give birth; and when she had the news that the ark of God had been taken and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, her pains came on her suddenly and she gave birth.
And Saul said, Bring hither to me the burnt-offering and the peace-offerings. And he offered up the burnt-offering.
How shall we escape if we refuse so great salvation? which having begun to be declared by Jehovah, was confirmed unto us by them that heard him.
so that my bonds have become manifest in Christ in the whole praetorium, and to the other places -- all,
Saul struck the Amalekites, from Havilah as you go to Shur that is before Egypt.
Then Achish called David, and said unto him, surely, as Jehovah liveth, thou hast been upright, and thy going out and thy coming in with me in the host is good in my sight for I have not found evil in thee since the day of thy coming unto me unto this day: nevertheless the lords favor thee not.
For when every commandment had been spoken by Moses to all the people according to the law, he took the blood of the calves and the goats, with water and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people,
Now consider how great this man was, to whom even Abraham, the patriarch, gave a tenth out of the best plunder.
Who being the brightness of his glory, and the express image of his person, and upholding all things by the word of his power, when he had by himself purged our sins, sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high;
His mother looked out at the window, and howled: and she spoke from the dining room: Why is his chariot so long in coming back? Why are the feet of his horses so slow?
And when David turneth back from smiting the Philistine, then Abner taketh him and bringeth him in before Saul, and the head of the Philistine in his hand;
Though some are preaching Christ out of envy and competition, others do it out of a good heart:
Then he called hastily unto the young man his armorbearer, and said unto him, Draw thy sword, and slay me, that men say not of me, A women slew him. And his young man thrust him through, and he died.
And he died, and was buried in Zabulon.
As soon as Gideon died, and the children of Israel turned again, and played the prostitute following Baals, and made Baal Berith their god.
And the anger of Yahweh burned against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the Philistines and the children of Ammon.
And they gave Hebron to Caleb, as Moses had said, who destroyed out of it the three sons of Enac.
and not only while I am alive dost thou do with me the kindness of Jehovah, and I die not,
Let love of the brethren continue.
And the men of Israel had made a turn about, and the men of Benjamin were overcome with fear, for they saw that evil had overtake them.
Then Eli called Samuel and said, "Samuel, my son!" And he said, "Here I am."
Therefore I was displeased with that generation, and said, 'They always err in their heart, but they didn't know my ways;'
And it cometh to pass, at that time, that Eli is lying down in his place, and his eyes have begun to be dim -- he is not able to see.
And the word of Jehovah came to Samuel, speaking:
There was a certain man from Ramathaim Zophim, from the hill-country of Ephraim, whose name was Elkanah the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephraimite.
And he will take your fields, and your vineyards, and your oliveyards, even the best of them, and give them to his servants.
So then, be careful and do not drink wine or strong drink, and do not eat anything unclean,
Now without faith it is impossible to please him, for the one who approaches God must believe that he exists and is a rewarder of those who seek him.
Here I am. Witness against me before Yahweh, and before his anointed. Whose ox have I taken? Whose donkey have I taken? Whom have I defrauded? Whom have I oppressed? Of whose hand have I taken a ransom to make me blind my eyes? I will restore it to you."
And Samson went down to Timnathah, and saw a woman in Timnathah of the daughters of the Philistines.
and Jonathan calleth after the youth, `Speed, haste, stand not;' and Jonathan's youth gathereth the arrows, and cometh unto his lord.
They said, "If you are sending the ark of the God of Israel away, you must not send it away empty, but by all means return it with a guilt thereof. Then you will be healed and it will become known to you why his hand is not turned aside from you."
And David said to Achish, Surely thou shalt know what thy servant can do. And Achish said to David, Therefore will I make thee keeper of my head for ever.
Now Gideon had seventy sons, his own offspring, for he had many wives.
Gideon said, "Well then, when Yahweh gives Zebah and Zalmunna into my hand, I will trample your flesh with the thorns and briers of the wilderness."
One of the sons of Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub, named Abiathar, escaped, and fled after David.
For yet a very little while he that comes will come, and will not delay.
When the ark of Yahweh's covenant came into the camp, all Israel shouted with a great shout, so that the earth rang again.
And when they were come to the land of Zuph, Saul said to his servant that was with him, Come, and let us return; lest my father leave caring for the asses, and take thought for us.
And the day cometh that Jonathan son of Saul saith unto the young man bearing his weapons, `Come, and we pass over unto the station of the Philistines, that on the other side of this;' and to his father he hath not declared .
I will place a fleece of wool on the threshing threshing-floor. If there is dew on the fleece only, and all of the ground is dry, I will know that you will deliver Israel by my hand, just as you have said."
David was told, "Behold, the Philistines are fighting against Keilah, and are robbing the threshing floors."
And David's men said to him, Even here in Judah we are full of fear: how much more then if we go to Keilah against the armies of the Philistines?
but I have thought it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother and fellow-workman and fellow-soldier, but your messenger and minister to my need,
Then the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they answered, Samson, the son-in-law of the Timnite, because he had taken his wife, and given her to his companion. And the Philistines came up, and burnt her and her father with fire.
And it came to pass in the morning, when the wine is gone out from Nabal, that his wife declareth to him these things, and his heart dieth within him, and he hath been as a stone.
choosing rather to suffer affliction along with the people of God than to have temporary pleasure of sin;
For when God made promise to Abraham, because he could swear by no greater, he sware by himself,
How much more, if haply the people had eaten freely to day of the spoil of their enemies which they found? for had there not been now a much greater slaughter among the Philistines?
Now where remission of these is, there is no more oblation for sin.
And all the people went to Galgal, and there they made Saul king before Jehovah in Galgal, and they sacrificed there victims of peace before Jehovah. And there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced exceedingly.
David said to him, "Will you bring me down to this troop?" He said, "Swear to me by God that you will not kill me and not deliver me up into the hands of my master, and I will bring you down to this troop."
Yea, he putteth his life in his hand, and smiteth the Philistine, and even Jehovah, worketh a great salvation for all Israel; thou sawest, and dost rejoice, and why dost thou sin against innocent blood, to put David to death for nought?'
Saul also and his men went to seek him. And they told David; wherefore he came down into a rock, and abode in the wilderness of Maon. And when Saul heard it, he pursued after David in the wilderness of Maon.
And Samuel answereth Saul and saith, `I the seer; go up before me into the high place, and ye have eaten with me to-day, and I have sent thee away in the morning, and all that in thy heart I declare to thee.
And three bands of men came out from the Philistines to make an attack; one band went by the road which goes to Ophrah, into the land of Shual:
But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labor; yet what I shall choose I know not.
Say no more words of pride; let not uncontrolled sayings come out of your mouths: for Jehovah is a God of knowledge, by him acts are judged.
Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ; To all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi, with the overseers and servants:
And to whom sware he that they should not enter into his rest, but to them that believed not?
And Saul saith unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, `Give perfection;' and Jonathan and Saul are captured, and the people went out.
And they immolated a calf, and offered the child to Heli.
And blessed be your discretion, And blessed be you who have came upon me this day from bloodguilt and from delivering myself by my own hand.
Saul answered, "Am I not the Benjamite, of the smallest of the tribes of Israel? And my family the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? Why then do you speak to me like this?"
For every high priest taken from amongst men is established for men in things relating to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins;
being made so much better than the angels, as he hath by inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they.
And Saul caught up a spear to strike him. And Jonathan understood that it was determined by his father to kill David.
But the Asherites went on living among the Canaanite, the people of the land, without driving them out.
In the measure of my strong hope and belief that in nothing will I be put to shame, but that without fear, as at all times, so now will Christ have glory in my body, by life or by death.
Of the teaching of baptisms, and imposition of hands, and of the resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment.
And David went up from thence, and dwelt in strongholds at En-gedi).
And the land had rest forty years; and Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
One of the same place answered, "Who is their father?" Therefore it became a proverb, "Is Saul also among the prophets?"
See, may ye not refuse him who is speaking, for if those did not escape who refused him who upon earth was divinely speaking -- much less we who do turn away from him who from heaven,
For the law appoints men as high priests who have weakness, but the statement of the oath, after the law, appoints a Son, who is perfected forever.
And they forsook even Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who had brought them up out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods of the gods of the peoples that were round about them, and bowed themselves to them, and provoked Jehovah to anger.
So David said to Ahimelech the priest, "The king charged me with a matter and said to me, 'No one must know anything about this matter on which I am sending you, with which I have charged you and the servants.'" So I have arranged to meet with my servants at a certain place.
For a will is in force where there hast been death, for it is never in force while he who made it lives.
and Jehovah selleth them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who hath reigned in Hazor, and the head of his host Sisera, and he is dwelling in Harosheth of the Goyim;
Where the chariots were dashed together, and the army of the enemies was choked, there let the justices of Jehovah be rehearsed, and his clemency towards the brave men of Israel: then the people of Jehovah went down to the gates, and obtained the sovereignty.
And Deborah singeth -- also Barak son of Abinoam -- on that day, speaking: --
and blessed thy discretion, And blessed thou in that thou hast restrained me this day from coming in with blood, and to limit my hand to myself.
And they said, What one is there of the tribes of Israel that came not up to Mizpeh to Jehovah? and, behold, there came none to the camp from Jabesh-gilead to the assembly.
They said to him, "Please ask counsel of God, that we may know whether our way which we go shall be prosperous."
You have explained to me to-day that you have dealt well with me, how Yahweh delivered me into your hand but you did not kill me.
Why should you harden your hearts like the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their heart? Is it not just like when he dealt with them wantonly so that they sent them away and they left?
and might set free all those who through fear of death through the whole of their life were subject to bondage.
Then the five men who had gone to make a search through the country of Laish, said to their brothers, Have you knowledge that in these houses there is an ephod and family gods and a pictured image and a metal image? So now you see what to do.
But call to mind the earlier days in who, having been enlightened, ye endured much conflict of sufferings;
And he took his staff in his hand, and chose him five smooth stones out of the valley, and put them in a shepherd's bag which he had, even in a scrip; and his sling was in his hand; and he drew near to the Philistine.
and the men that died not were smitten with the hemorrhoids; and the cry of the city went up to heaven.
Then Jonathan said to David, Whatever your signature, I will do it for you.
And that every tongue should confess that the Lord Jesus Christ is in the glory of God the Father.
For consider well him who endured so great contradiction from sinners against himself, that ye be not weary, fainting in your minds.
As I have sworn in my wrath; If they shall enter into my rest.
As many, therefore, as perfect -- let us think this, and if anything ye think ye do, this also shall God reveal to you,
For Israel had put themselves in array, and the Philistines who stood against them were prepared.
And when they gat up to go away, his father-in-law, the girl's father, said to him, Now evening is coming on, so do not go tonight; see, the day is almost gone; take your rest here and let your heart be glad, and tomorrow early, go on your way back to your house.
Saul's uncle said, "Please tell me what Samuel said to you."
But now he hast attained a more excellent ministry, by as much as he also is mediator of a better covenant which hast been enacted upon better promises.
Then the woman came in, and said to her husband, A man came to me, and his form was like the form of a god, causing great fear; I put no question to him about where he came from, and he did not give me his name;
And the Levites have taken down the ark of Jehovah, and the coffer which with it, in which the vessels of gold, and place on the great stone; and the men of Beth-Shemesh have caused to ascend burnt-offerings and sacrifice sacrifices in that day to Jehovah;
and so fearful was the appearance that Moses said, "I am terrified and trembling."
But the perfect man will be living by his faith; and if he goes back, my soul will have no pleasure in him.
And again, Israel did evil in the sight of Yahweh. They served the Baals, the Ashtaroth, the gods of Aram, Sidon, Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon and Philistines; they abandoned Yahweh and did not serve him.
And the people, the men of Israel, strengthen themselves, and add to set the battle in array in the place where they arranged themselves on the first day.
And they called the name of that place Bochim; and they sacrificed there to Jehovah.
And Samuel saith, `And why dost thou ask me, and Jehovah hath turned aside from thee, and is thine enemy?
And it came to pass when Samuel was old, that he appointed his sons to be judges over Israel.
And Jair died and was buried in Kamon.
And it was told Saul, and he sent other messengers, and they also prophesied. And Saul sent messengers again the third time, and they also prophesied.
And all Midian and Amalek and the sons of the east have been gathered together, and pass over, and encamp in the valley of Jezreel,
And they went out into their fields and got in the fruit of their vines and when the grapes had been crushed, they made a holy feast and went into the house of their god, and over their food and drink they were cursing Abimelech.
And he said unto his men, Jehovah forbid that I should do this thing unto my master, the Lord's anointed, to stretch forth my hand against him, seeing he is the anointed of Jehovah.
And Saul's servants spoke these words to David privately. But David said, "Is it insignificant in your sight to become son-in-law of the king, as I am a poor And lightly esteemed man?"
Jephthah said to the elders, "Did you not shun me and drive me out from the house of my father? Why do you come to me now when you have trouble?"
and a helmet of brass on his head, and a scaled coat of mail he thyself, and the weight of the coat of mail five thousand shekels of brass,
And Achish answered and said to David, I know that thou art acceptable to me, as an angel of God; nevertheless the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.
Saul was threatened by David still more, so Saul became a perpetual enemy of David.
Yahweh said to him, "Peace be to you! Don't be afraid. You shall not die."
And David answering, said: Behold, the king's spear, let one of the king's servants come over and fetch it.
Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Yahweh, died, being one hundred ten years old.
Now Eli was very old; and he had news from time to time of what his sons were doing to all Israel.
And he said: If I have found favor before thee, give me a sign that it is thou that speakest to me,
But David fled from Najoth, which is in Ramatha, and came and said to Jonathan: What have I done? what is my iniquity, and what is my sin against thy father, that he seeketh patient?
But ye have forsaken me, and served other gods; therefore I will save you no more.
Then they put the ark of Yahweh on the utility cart with the container holding the gold mice and the images of their tumors.
and the sons of Israel cry unto Jehovah, and Jehovah raiseth a saviour to the sons of Israel, and he saveth them -- Othniel son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother;
For even in Thessalonica you sent once and again to my need.
And after hearing what they are saying, you will get strength to go down against the army. So he went down with his servant Purah to the outer line of the tents of the armed men.
And Saul, conscious that the voice was David's, said, Is that your voice, David, my son? And David said, It is my voice, O my lord king.
When she pressed him daily with its words, and urged him, his soul was troubled to death.
And Saul also went home to Gibeah; and there went with him a band of men, whose hearts God had touched.
And David sware unto Saul. And Saul went home; but David and his men gat them up unto the stronghold.
And when David had heard that Nabal was dead, he said: Blessed be Jehovah, who hath judged the cause of my reproach at the hand of Nabal, and hath kept his servant from evil, and Jehovah hath returned the wickedness of Nabal upon his head. Then David sent and treated with Abigail, that he might take her to himself for a wife.
And the princes of Galaad said to Jephte: For this cause we are now come to thee, that thou mayst go with us, and fight against the children of Ammon, and be head over all the inhabitants of Galaad.
And even Jehovah, the God of Israel gave Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they smote them; and Israel took possession of the whole land of the Amorites, who dwelt in that country.
including Ahiah, the son of Ahitub, Ichabod's brother, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eli, the priest of Yahweh in Shiloh, wearing an ephod. The people didn't know that Jonathan was gone.
Now we have had our earthly fathers who disciplined us, and we respected them. Will we not much rather subject ourselves to the Father of spirits and live?
The men of Israel were to make a turn about in the fight. And Benjamin had overcome and put to death about thirty of the men of Israel, and were saying, Certainly they are falling back before us as in the first fight.
and call the name of the city Dan, by the name of Dan their father, who was born to Israel; and yet Laish the name of the city at the first.
And to them that were in Hormah, and to them that were in Chorashan, and to them that were in Athach,
Then the king sent to call Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests who were in Nob; and they all came to the king.
By faith, Noah, oracularly warned concerning things not yet seen, moved with fear, prepared an ark for the saving of his house; by which he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which according to faith.
Because where there is a testament, there hast to be the death of the man who made it.
David answered and said to Ahimelech the Hittite and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah the brother of Joab, saying, "Who will go down with me to Saul, in the camp?" And Abishai said, "I will go down with you."
And when he had brought him, behold, they were lying spread upon all the ground, eating and drinking, and as it were keeping a festival day, for all the prey, and the spoil which they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Juda.
For they all seek their own interests, not those of Jesus Christ.
and to those in Hebron, and to all the places where David himself and his men went about.
and therefore I have sworn to the house of Eli: the iniquity of the house of Eli is not atoned for, by sacrifice, and by offering -- unto the age.'
Then Gideon said, Because of this, when Jehovah hast given Zebah and Zalmunna into my hands, I will have you stretched on a bed of thorns of the waste land and on sharp stems, and have you crushed as grain is crushed on a grain-floor.
And Saul saith, `Bring nigh unto me the burnt-offering, and the peace-offerings;' and he causeth the burnt-offering to ascend.
And Saul said unto his uncle, He told us plainly that the asses were found. But of the matter of the kingdom, whereof Samuel spake, he told him not.
Then Abigail went to Nabal, and look, he was holding a feast in his house like the feast of the king. Nabal was enjoying himself, and he was very drunk, so she did not tell him a thing, nothing at all, until the light of morning.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, a hundred and ten years old.
And it came to pass, when he made mention of the ark of God, that he fell from off the seat backward by the side of the gate, and his neck brake, and he died: for he was an old man, and heavy. And he had judged Israel forty years.
And they turn aside thither, and come in unto the house of the young man the Levite, the house of Micah, and ask of him of welfare, --
When the trumpet soundeth in my hand, do you also blow the trumpets on every side of the camp.
And Jonathan gave his bow and arrows to the boy, and said to him, Take these and go back to the town.
they said to him, "Please say Shibboleth," and if he said, "Sibboleth"because he could not pronounce it correctlythey grabbed him and executed him at the fords of the Jordan. At that time forty-two thousand from Ephraim fell.
And all Israel were gathered together against the city, as one man, with one mind, and one counsel;
Now these things being thus ordered, into the first tabernacle the priests enter at all times, accomplishing the services;
But one in a certain place testified, saying, What is man, that thou art mindful of him? or the son of man that thou visitest him?
and I will go out and stand besides my father in the field where thou art, and will speak of thee with my father; and see what it is; and tell thee.
And they said to the messengers that had come, Thus shall ye say to the men of Jabesh-Gilead: To-morrow ye shall have deliverance when the sun is hot. And the messengers came and informed the men of Jabesh-Gilead; and they were glad.
Keep in mind those who were over you, and who gave you the word of Jehovah: seeing outcome of their way of life, let your faith be like theirs.
Neither did Asher drive out the inhabitants of Accho, nor the inhabitants of Sidon, nor of Ahlab, nor of Achzib, nor of Helbah, nor of Aphik, nor of Rehob:
And he had a son whose name was Saul, a choice and goodly man, and there was not among the children of Israel a goodlier person than he: from his shoulders and upward he appeared above all the people.
Swear now therefore to me by Jehovah, that thou wilt not cut off my seed after me, and that thou wilt not destroy my name out of my father's house.
And David said to Achish, But what have I done? what have you seen in your servant while I have been with you till this day, that I may not go and take up arms against those who are now making war on my lord the king?
Now there was no iron-worker in all the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, For fear Hebrews make themselves swords or spears:
And Jonathan again took an oath to David, because of his love for him: for David was as dear to him as his very soul.
The children of the Kenite, Moses' brother-in-law, went up out of the city of palm-trees with the children of Judah into the wilderness of Judah, which is in the south of Arad; and they went and lived with the people.
So all the men of Israel were gathered against the city, knit together as one man.
And his sons walked not in his ways: but they turned aside after lucre, and took bribe, and perverted judgment.
Eighteen thousand men of Benjamin fell, all these were men of valor.
And she saith, `Let thy handmaid find favor in thy eyes;' and the woman goeth on her way, and eateth, and her countenance hath not been for it any more.
And Samuel saith unto Saul, `Me did even Jehovah, send to anoint thee for king over His people, over Israel; and now, hearken to the voice of the words of Jehovah:
Now at the present time, men over whom death hast power take the tenth; but then it was taken by one of whom it is witnessed that he is living.
And the children of Benjamin who came that day from the towns were twenty-six thousand men armed with swords, in addition to the people of Gibeah, numbering seven hundred of the best fighting-men,
And Israel sent men to Sihon, king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon; and Israel said to him, Let me now go through your land to my place.
And now, I pray thee, let my lord the king hear the words of his servant. If even Jehovah, have moved thee against me, let him accept an oblation but if the sons of men, cursed be they before Jehovah; for they have driven me out this day from adhering to the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
and a sound of a trumpet, and a voice of words, which those having heard did treat that a word might not be added to them,
yea, these have entered the house of Micah, and take the graven image, the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image; and the priest saith unto them, `What are ye doing?'
She said, "The glory hast departed from Israel; for God's ark hast been taken."
And the men of Israel go out from Mizpeh, and pursue the Philistines, and smite them unto the place of Beth-Car.
Saul said, "Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and take plunder among them until the morning light, and let us not leave a man of them." They said, "Do whatever seems good to you." then the priest said, "Let us draw near here to God."
for our God is a devouring fire.
Then said Saul to his servant, Well said, come, let us go. So they went unto the city where the man of God was.
Asher did not drive out the inhabitants of Acco, Sidon, Ahlab, Aczib, Helbah, Aphik, or Rehob,
And the children of Benjamin went forth out of Gibeah, and destroyed to the ground of Israel that day twenty-two thousand men.
and, so to speak, through Abraham, Levi also, who received tithes, hast been made to pay tithes.
And the princes of the Philistines went forth: and from the beginning of their going forth, David behaved himself more wisely than all the servants of Saul, and his name became very famous.
And thou hast shewn this day what good things thou hast done to me; how Jehovah delivered me into thy hand, and thou hast not killed me.
By faith Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter;
Therefore as many as the stars of the heaven in multitude, and as innumerable as the sand which is by the sea beach, were fathered by one man, and him as good as dead.
And all Israel was exceeding sorry, and repented for the destroying of one tribe out of Israel.
The woman bore a son, and named him Samson. The child grew, and Yahweh blessed him.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I, Rabbi? and what is my life, or my father's family in Israel, that I should be son-in-law to the king?
whence not even the first apart from blood hath been initiated,
`And thou hast gone down before me to Gilgal, and lo, I am going down unto thee, to cause to ascend burnt-offerings, to sacrifice sacrifices of peace-offerings; seven days thou dost wait till my coming in unto thee, and I have made known to thee that which thou dost do.'
And David dwelt with Achish at Gath, he and his men, every man with his household, even David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelitess, Nabal's wife.
And it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of Nabal, that his wife told him these things; and his heart died within him, and he became a stone.
But Madian and Amalec, and all the eastern people lay scattered in the valley, as a multitude of locusts: their camels also were innumerable as the sand that lieth on the sea-shore.
And Jehovah saved Israel that day; and the battle passed over beyond Beth-Aven.
And Abimelech rose up, and all the people that were with him, by night, and they laid wait against Shechem in four companies.
They would camp against them and destroy the produce of the land as far as Gaza; they left no produce in Israel, or sheep, ox, or donkey.
And the hand of Israel pressed harder and harder on Jabin king of Canaan, until they destroyed Jabin king of Canaan.
And a messenger of even Jehovah, goeth up from Gilgal, unto Bochim,
And Josue the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, being a hundred and ten years old,
The child Samuel grew on, and increased in favor both with Yahweh, and also with men.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, being a hundred and ten years old.
The men of Israel said, "Have you seen this man who hast come up? He hast surely come up to defy Israel. The king will give great riches to the man who kills him, and will give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel."
And Ephraim did not dispossess the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer; but the Canaanites dwelt among them in Gezer.
but I trust in Lord that I myself also shall soon come;
He answered them: They were my brethren, the sons of my mother. As Jehovah liveth, if you had saved them, I would not kill you.
therefore I said, 'Now the Philistines will come down against me at Gilgal, and I have not yet implored the face of Yahweh.' So I forced myself and offered the burnt offering."
So Jehovah sent Jerubbaal and Barak and Jephthah and Samuel and took you out of the power of those who were fighting against you on every side, and made you safe.
to whom also a tenth of all did Abraham divide, (first, indeed, being interpreted, `King of righteousness,' and then also, King of Salem, which is, King of Peace,)
And Jonathan said to David, Come, and let us go out into the field. And they went out both of them into the field.
And Manoah maketh entreaty unto Jehovah, and saith, `O, my Lord, the man of God whom Thou didst send, let him come in, I pray thee, again unto us, and direct us what we do to the youth who is born.'
And every priest standeth daily ministering and offering oftentimes the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins:
For a different doctrine, would they not have ceased offered, because the ones who worship, having been purified once and for all, would no longer have any consciousness of sins?
For if Jesus had given them rest, then would he not afterward have spoken of another day.
one, indeed, of rivalry the Christ do proclaim, not purely, supposing to add affliction to my bonds,
Finally, brothers, whatever things are true, whatever things are honorable, whatever things are just, whatever things are pure, whatever things are lovely, whatever things are of good report; if there is any virtue, and if there is any praise, think about these things.
In those days there was no king in Israel, but every one did that which was right to himself.
Because he was still in his father's body when Melchizedek came to him.
And the people and princes of Gilead said one to another, What man is he that will begin to fight against the children of Ammon? he shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
For who when he hath found his enemy, will let him go well away? But Jehovah reward thee for this good Turn, for what thou hast done to me this day.
For Hannah's prayer came from her heart, and though her lips were moving she made no sound: so it was to Eli that she was overcome with wine.
Then Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the middle of his brothers. Then Yahweh's Spirit came mightily on David from that day forward. So Samuel rose up and went to Ramah.
I went out after him, and mastered both of him, and took it out of his mouth: and if, turning on me, he came at me, I took him by the hair and overcame him and put him to death.
And Midian was subdued before the children of Israel, and they lifted up their heads no more. And the land had rest forty years in the days of Gideon.
The children of Israel served Eglon the king of Moab eighteen years.
He had brass shin armor on his legs, and a brass spear between his shoulders.
Women received their dead raised to life again: and others were tortured, not accepting deliverance, that they might receive a better resurrection;
And a man of that place answered and said, But who is their father? Therefore it became a proverb, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And his daughter-in-law, Phinehas' wife, was with child, near to be delivered; and when she heard the tidings that the ark of God was taken, and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, she bowed herself and travailed; for her pains came upon her.
And from that day Saul was looking with envy on David.
And they said to him, Be quiet; say nothing, and come with us and be our father and priest; is it better for you to be priest to one man's house or to be priest to a tribe and a family in Israel?
And they slew the Moabites at that time, about ten thousand men, all fat, and all men of valor, and not a man escaped.
And Samson answered her: If I shall be bound with seven cords made of sinews not yet dry, but still moist, I shall be weak like other men.
And he said, What did Jehovah say to you? Do not keep it from me: may God's punishment be on you if you keep from me anything he said to you.
David recovered all that Amalekite had taken; and David rescued his two wives.
Then all the children of Israel took up arms; and the people came together like one man, from Dan to Beer-sheba, and the land of Gilead, before Jehovah at Mizpah.
And the peace of God that surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus.
So on the day of battle, there was not a sword or a spear found in the hands of all the army that was with Saul and Jonathan, but Saul and his son Jonathan had them.
David put his hand in his bag, took a stone, and slung it, and struck the Philistine in his forehead. The stone went down into his forehead, and he fell on his face to the earth.
And Abimelech goeth unto Thebez, and encampeth against Thebez, and captureth it,
Into your hands hath God delivered the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and what was I able to do in comparison with you? Then their spirit was quieted toward him, when he said that word.
And Saul said to Michal, why have you been false to me, letting my hater go and get securely away? And in answer Michal said to Saul, He said to me, Let me go, or I will put you to death.
He said to his servant, "Come and let us draw near to one of these places; and we will lodge in Gibeah, or in Ramah."
And when Saul was returned from following the Philistines, they told him, speaking: Behold, David is in the wilderness of Engaddi.
And Jonathan made [a covenant] with the house of David, [saying,] Let even Jehovah, even require at the hand of David's enemies!
And the people said to Saul: Shall Jonathan then die, who hath wrought this great salvation in Israel? This must not be. As Jehovah liveth, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground, for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people delivered Jonathan, that he should not die.
And Gideon went up by the way used by the people living in tents on the east of Nobah and Jogbehah, and made an attack on the army when they had no thought of danger.
And the heads of Succoth say, `Is the hand of Zebah and Zalmunna now in thy hand, that we give to thy host bread?'
And they said, You have never been untrue to us or cruel to us; you have taken nothing from any man.
And he said to Jether his first-born, Arise, slay them! But the youth drew not his sword; for he feared, because he was yet a youth.
And the border of the Amorites was from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock, and upwards.
then he said, Lo, I come to do thy will. He takes away the first that he may establish the second;
And the number of them that lapped, with their hand to their mouth, were three hundred men; and all the rest of the people bowed down on their knees to drink water.
And Saul said, Disperse yourselves among the people, and say to them, Bring near to me every man his ox, and every man his sheep, and slaughter them here, and eat; and sin not against Jehovah in eating with the blood. And all the people brought every man his ox with him that night, and slaughtered there.
By faith the walls of Jericho fell, having been encircled for seven days.
and said thus: To life! and thou, peace; and thy house, peace; and all that thou hast -- peace!
And David smote them from the twilight even to the evening of the next day; and there escaped not a man of them, save four hundred young men, who rode upon camels, and fled.
And now behold, the king walks before you; and I am old and grey-headed; and behold, my sons are with you; and I have walked before you from my youth up to this day.
And Saul learned of Yahweh, but Yahweh did not answer him, not by dreams or by the Urim or by the prophets.
And it was so. He arose early the next day and squeezed the fleece, and he drained out dew from the fleece, a full drinking bowl of water.
`If ye fear Jehovah, and have served him, and hearkened to His voice, then ye do not provoke the mouth of Jehovah, and ye have been -- both ye and the king who hath reigned over you -- after Jehovah your God.
Then said the woman, Whom shall I bring up unto thee? And he said, Bring me up Samuel.
And Saul and all Israel heard these words of the Philistine, and they were dismayed and greatly afraid.
So the two of them sat and ate and drank together, and the father of the young woman said to the man, "Please, agree to spend the night and enjoy yourself."
And between the passages where Jonathan sought to pass over unto the station of the Philistines the edge of a rock on the one side, and the edge of a rock on the other side, and the name of the one is Bozez, and the name of the other Seneh.
to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling that speaks better than that of Abel.
And the Amorites forced the children of Dan into the mountain; for they would not suffer them to come down to the valley.
For we have not here a everlasting city, but we seek one that is to come.
Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence for the entrance into the sanctuary by the blood of Jesus,
And though a man hast taken up arms against you, putting your life in danger, still the soul of my lord will be kept safe among the band of the living with Jehovah your God; and the souls of those who are against you he will send violently away from him, like stones from a bag.
The man said to Eli, "I am he who came out of the army, and I fled to-day out of the army." He said, "How did the matter go, my son?"
Let us therefore, as many as be perfected; be thus minded: and if in anything ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this unto you.
And his base was at Ramah, where his house was; there he was judge of Israel and there he made an altar to Jehovah.
And David and his men went up, and pillaged Gessuri, and Gerzi, and the Amalecites: for these were of old the inhabitants of the countries, as men go to Sur, even to the land of Egypt.
Then Yahweh came and stood there and called out as before, "Samuel! Samuel!" And Samuel said, "Speak, because your servant is listening."
And it came to pass in the day of battle, that there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan; but with Saul and with Jonathan his son there was found.
And having said these words, he let the mouth-bone go out of his hand; so that place was named Ramath-lehi.
And Manoah took the young goat and the grain thereof, and he offered it to Yahweh on the rock, to the one who performs signs. And Manoah and his wife were watching.
And his return was to Ramah; for there was his house; and there he judged Israel; and there he built an altar unto Jehovah.
And Samson said to them, If you go on like this, truly I will take my full payment from you; and that will be the end of it.
Then he brought near the tribe of Benjamin according to itself families, and the family of Matri was selected by lot. Then Saul the son of Kish was chosen, and they sought him, but he could not be found.
Who in the days of his flesh, having sent up prayers and requests with strong crying and weeping to him who was able to give him salvation from death, had his prayer answered because of his fear of God.
For this reason Jehovah, the God of Israel, hast said, Truly I did say that your family and your father's people would have their place before me for ever: but now Jehovah says, Let it not be so; I will give honor to those by whom I am honored, and those who have no respect for me will be of small value in my eyes.
Then Yahweh called out to Samuel and he said, "Here I am!"
And the king said to Doeg, Turn thou, and fall on the priests. And Doeg the Edomite turned, and fell on the priests, and put to death that day eighty-five persons who wore the linen ephod.
His war-dress they put in the house of Astarte; and his body was fixed on the wall of Beth-shan.
And when he had ended prophesying, he came to the high place.
Nevertheless you have done well in communicating to my affliction.
And Saul commandeth his servants, `Speak unto David gently, saying, Lo, the king hath delighted in thee, and all his servants have loved thee, and now, be son-in-law to the king.'
Praise ye Jehovah for the avenging of Israel, when the people willingly offered themselves.
But we are not among those who shrink back to destruction, but among those who have faith to the preservation of our souls.
If one man sin against another, God will judge him; but if a man sin against Jehovah, who shall entreat for him? But they hearkened not to the voice of their father, for Jehovah was minded to slay them.
For earth, that is drinking in the rain many times coming upon it, and is bringing forth herbs fit for those because of whom also it is dressed, doth partake of blessing from God,
And Samuel said to Saul, Jehovah sent *me* to anoint thee king over his people, over Israel: now therefore hearken to the voice of the words of Jehovah.
And Abigail hasted, and arose, and rode upon an ass, with five damsels of hers that followed her; and she went after the messengers of David, and became his wife.
Fighting the same fight which you saw in me, and now have word of in me.
looking to a God and perfecter of faith -- Jesus, who, over-against the joy set before him -- did endure a cross, shame having despised, on the right hand of the throne of God did sit down;
And the men of the garrison spoke to Jonathan, and unto his armorbearer, and said: Come up to us, and we will show you a thing. And Jonathan said to his armourbearer: Let us go up, follow me: for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hands of Israel.
And Nob, the city of the priests, he smote with the edge of the sword, both men and women, infants and sucklings, and oxen, and asses, and sheep, with the edge of the sword.
So Michal let David down through the window, and he went in flight and got away.
And David said, "As Yahweh lives, certainly Yahweh will strike him, or his day will come and he will die, or he will go down in the battle and perish.
And six hundred men turned and fled to the wilderness to the ascent of Rimmon, and abode at the ascent of Rimmon four months.
saying, "I will proclaim your name to my brothers; in the midst of the assembly I will sing in praise of you."
Moreover, as for me, far be it from me that I should sin against Jehovah in ceasing to pray for you; and I will teach you the good and right way.
And turn not aside after vain things which shall never profit you, nor deliver you, because they are vain.
When they had come to the land of Zuph, Saul said to his servant who was with him, "Come, and let us return, lest my father stop caring about the donkeys, and be anxious for us."
And the words which David hath spoken are heard, and they declare before Saul, and he receiveth him;
And it came to pass, when Samuel was offering the holocaust, the Philistines began the battle against Israel: but Jehovah thundered with a great thunder on that day upon the Philistines, and terrified them, and they were overthrown before the face of Israel.
And your men-servants, and your maid-servants, and your young men -- the best, and your asses, he doth take, and hath prepared for his own work;
And David is stronger than the Philistine with a sling and with a stone, and smiteth the Philistine, and putteth him to death, and there is no sword in the hand of David,
since then, it remaineth for certain to enter into it, and those who did first hear good news entered not in by their unbelief --
For I have told unto him, that I will judge his house for ever, for iniquity, because he knew that his sons did wickedly, and did not chastise them.
Receive him therefore in Jehovah with all joy, and hold such in honor,
And all the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and put themselves in array at Baaltamar: and the liers-in-wait of Israel came forth out of their places, even out of the meadows of Gibeah.
And the priest said, The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom thou slewest in the valley of Elah, behold, it is here wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod; if thou wilt take that, take it: for there is no other save that here. And David said, There is none like that; give it me.
And Samuel saith, `And what the noise of this flock in mine ears -- and the noise of the herd which I am hearing?'
And he called hastily unto his armorbearer, and said to him: Draw thy sword, and kill me: lest it should be said that I was slain by a woman. He did as he was commanded, and slew him.
not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers, in the day of My taking by their hand, to bring them out of the land of Egypt -- because they did not remain in My covenant, and I did not regard them, saith Jehovah, --
Now while these things were in existence, the priests went into the first Tent at all times, for prayer and the making of peace-offerings.
though he was a Son, yet learned obedience by the things which he suffered.
So now, take and make ready a new cart, and two cows who have never come under the yoke, and have the cows yoked to the cart, and take their young ones away from them:
and they take captive the women who in it; from small unto great they have not put any one to death, and they lead away, and go on their way.
He judged Israel twenty-three years, and died, and was buried in Shamir.
And Samson's wife weepeth for it, and saith, `Thou hast only hated me, and hast not loved me; riddle thou hast put forth to the sons of my people -- and to me thou hast not declared it;' and he saith to her, `Lo, to my father and to my mother I have not declared -- and to thee I declare !'
Therefore not even the first covenant was ratified without blood.
Saul sought to pin David to the wall with the spear; but he slipped away out of Saul's presence, and he cleave the spear into the wall. David fled, and escaped that night.
And who will hearken to you in this matter? For as his share is that goes down to the battle, so shall his share be that abides by the baggage: they shall share alike:
Now may the God of peace, who brought back from the dead the great shepherd of the sheep with the blood of an eternal covenant, our Lord Jesus,
Then separating the three hundred men into three bands, he gave every man a horn, and a vessel in which was a flaming branch.
And when he had made an end of prophesying, he came to the high place.
Please forgive the transgression of your servant. For Yahweh will certainly make my lord a sure house, because my lord fights Yahweh's battles. Evil will not be found in you all your days.
Samuel lay until the morning, and opened the doors of Yahweh's house. Samuel feared to show Eli the vision.
And the king said to Doeg, Turn thou, and fall upon the priests. And Doeg the Edomite turned, and he fell upon the priests, and slew on that day fourscore and five persons that did wear a linen ephod.
Israel and the Philistines drew up in battle lines, one battle line against the other.
For which cause there sprang even from one (and him as good as dead) as the stars of heaven in multitude, and as the sand which is by the sea-shore innumerable.
And fell at his feet, and said, Upon me, my lord, upon me let this iniquity be; and let thy handmaid, I pray thee, speak in thy audience, and hear the words of thy handmaid.
Then Jehovah opened a great tooth in the jaw of the ass, and waters issued out of it. And when he had drank them he refreshed his spirit, and recovered his strength. Therefore the name of that place was called The Spring of him that invoked from the jawbone, until this present day.
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning and encamped against Gibeah.
The former proclaim Christ from selfish ambition, not sincerely, thinking to raise up affliction in my imprisonment.
And the men of the city rise early in the morning, and lo, broken down hath been the altar of Baal, and the shrine which is by it hath been cut down, and the second bullock hath been offered on the altar which is built.
As he came up to Lehi, the Philistines came shouting to meet him; and the Spirit of Yahweh rushed on him, and the ropes that were on his arms became like flax that hast burned with fire, and his bindings melted from his hands.
because to you hast been graciously granted on behalf of Christ not only to believe in him, but also to suffer on behalf of him,
Let us fear therefore lest the promise being left of entering into his rest, any of you should be thought to be wanting.
and Jael goeth out to meet Sisera, and saith unto him, `Turn aside, my lord, turn aside unto me, fear not;' and he turneth aside unto her, into the tent, and she covereth him with a coverlet.
Why then did you not do the orders of Jehovah, but by violently taking their goods did evil in the sight of Jehovah?
When they came, he saw Eliab and said, "Surely his anointed one is before Yahweh!"
Then Michal took the household god and put it on the bed and put a quilt of goat's hair at itself head and covered it with the clothes.
and those, indeed, out of the sons of Levi receiving the priesthood, a command have to take tithes from the peoples according to the law, that is, their brethren, even though they came forth out of the loins of Abraham,
Then Jephthah sent men to the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What have you against me that you have come to make war against my land?
David said to his men, "Every man put on his sword!" Every man put on his sword. David also put on his sword. about four hundred men followed David, and two hundred stayed by the baggage.
Then Samuel did as Jehovah had said to him. And he came to Bethlehem, and the elders of the city wondered, and meeting him, they said: Is thy coming hither peaceable?
The king said, "You shall surely die, Ahimelech, you, and all your father's house."
And the cloud of smoke began to go up from the city in a column of smoke, and Benjamin turned backward, and behold, the whole city was going up in smoke!
And Jephthah said to them, I was at great strife, I and my people, with the children of Ammon; and I called you, but ye saved me not out of their hand.
In those days there was no king in Israel: every man did as seemed right to him.
And there was war again; and David went forth and fought with the Philistines, and smote them with a great slaughter; and they fled before him.
And the three companies blew the trumpets, and broke in pieces the pitchers, and held the torches in their left hand, and the trumpets in their right hand for blowing, and cried, The sword of Jehovah and of Gideon!
Saul said to him, "Why have you conspired against me, you and the son of Jesse, in that you have given him bread, and a sword, and have learned of God for him, that he should rise against me, to lie in wait, as it is today?"
But without any reason the lesser is blessed by the greater.
And Jehovah sent thee on the way, and said: Go, and kill the sinners of Amalec, and thou shalt fight against them until thou hast utterly destroyed them.
But the fig-tree said unto them, Should I forsake my sweetness, and my good fruit, and go to be promoted over the trees?
And he had them numbered in Bezek: the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel that came not up with the congregation to Jehovah? For they had a great oath concerning him that came not up to even Jehovah, to Mizpah, saying, He shall surely be put to death.
And the people repented them for Benjamin, because Jehovah had broken forth in the tribes of Israel.
They said to him, "We have come down to bind you and give you over into the hand of the Philistines." And Samson said to them, "Swear to me that you will not attack me yourselves."
Count not thy handmaid for a daughter of Belial: for out of the abundance of my complaint and grief have I spoken hitherto.
Saul sent the messengers to see David, saying, "Bring him up to me in the bed, that I may kill him."
And Jonathan answered Saul, David earnestly asked leave of me [to go] to Beth-lehem,
having the same struggle which you saw in me and now hear about in me.
And all the meeting sent to the men of Benjamin who were in the rock of Rimmon, offering them peace.
And when they went up the ascent to the city, they found maidens coming out to draw water, and they said to them: Is the seer here?
There is none holy like Jehovah, For there is none save Thee, And there is no rock like our God.
but if not, let fire come out from Abimelech, and devour the men of Shechem, and the house of Millo; and let fire come out from the men of Shechem, and from the house of Millo, on the way and devour Abimelech."
And when they had gone some way from the house of Mica, the men from the houses near Micah's house came together and overtook the children of Dan,
Persevere under discipline. God worketh with you as with his sons; for what son is there, whom the father doth not correct, Even
So the Philistines were afraid, for they said, "God hast come to the camp." And they said, "Woe to us, for this hast never happened before!
And David departed from thence into Maspha of Moab: and he said to the king of Moab: Let my father and my mother tarry with you, I beseech thee, till I know what God will do for me.
But if thou be afraid to go alone, let Phara thy servant go down with thee.
Then the children of Ammon were gathered together and encamped in Gilead. The children of Israel assembled themselves together and encamped in Mizpah.
He came up, and told his father and his mother, speaking: I saw a woman in Thamnatha of the daughters of the Philistines: I beseech you, take her for me to wife.
The high priest can deal gently with those who are ignorant and going astray, because he himself also is surrounded with weakness.
Thy servant slew both the lion and the bear: and this uncircumcised Philistine shall be as one of them, seeing he hath defied the armies of the living God.
Let us approach therefore with boldness to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy, and find favor for seasonable help.
And Elcana her husband went up, and all his house, to offer to Jehovah the solemn sacrifice, and his vow.
Through faith also Sarah herself received strength to conceive seed, and was delivered of a child when she was past age, because she judged him faithful who had promised.
According to zeal, persecuting the church of God; according to the righteousness that is in the law, conversing without blame.
It was so, that all who saw it said, "Such a deed hast not been done or seen from the day that the children of Israel came up out of the land of Egypt to this day! Consider it, take counsel, and speak."
from that time waiting until his enemies are made the footstool of his feet.
Then David said to Abigail, "Blessed be Yahweh the God of Israel who hast sent you this day to meet me!
And the Philistines came together and put their forces in position in Shunem; and Saul bought all Israel together and they took up their positions in Gilboa.
Who kept faith with God who gave him his place, even as Moses did in all his house.
And David was achieving success in all his ways and Yahweh was with him,
For rebellion is as the sin of sorcery, and stubbornness is as idolatry and teraphim. Because you have rejected Yahweh's word, he hast also rejected you from being king."
And Jonathan answered Saul, David earnestly asked leave of me to go to Beth-lehem:
The king sat on his throne, as at the other times, even on the seat by the wall; and Jonathan stood up, and Abner sat by Saul's side, but David's place was empty.
And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and encamped in the valley of terebinths, and set the battle in array against the Philistines.
Now Heber Kain had separated himself from the Kenite, even from the children of Hobab, Moses' brother-in-law, and had pitched his tent as far as the oak in Zaanannim, which is by Kedesh.
For when the priesthood changes, of necessities there is a change of the law also.
And now, O king, come down according to all the desire of thy soul to come down; and it will be for us to deliver him up into the king's hand.
Thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet. For in that he put all in subjection under him, he left nothing that is not put under him. But now we see not yet all things put under him.
And Samuel cried unto Jehovah, and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day.
And Gideon said unto them, I will not rule over you, neither shall my son rule over you: Jehovah shall rule over you.
And he ran unto Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou calledst me. And he said, I called not; lie down again. And he went and lay down.
having the same conflict as that which you have seen in me, and now have heard of me.
Then Saul said, "I have sinned. Come back, David my son, for I will not harm you again, because my life was precious in your eyes this day. Look, I have acted like a fool and have made a terrible mistake."
Then the king sent to call for Achimelech the priest the son of Achitob, and all his father's house, the priests that were in Nobe, and they came all of them to the king.
And David said: What have I done? is there not cause to speak?
And the tribes of Israel sent men through all the tribe of Benjamin saying, What is this evil which hast been done among you?
And when he was come into his house, he took a knife, and laid hold on his concubine, and divided her, together with its bones, into twelve pieces, and sent her into all the borders of Israel.
And Jonathan said to the young man that bore his armour: Come, let us go over to the garrison of these uncircumcised, it may be Jehovah will do for us, because it is easy for Jehovah to save either by many, or by few.
Then Jephthah gathered together all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim: and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because they said, Ye Gileadites are fugitives of Ephraim among the Ephraimites, and among the Manassites.
Now there was no blacksmith found throughout all the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, "Lest the Hebrews make themselves swords or spears";
I have all things and more than enough; I am made full, having had from Epaphroditus the things which came from you, a perfume of a sweet fragrance; an offering well pleasing to God.
The river of Kishion swept them away, that ancient river, the river Kishon. O my soul, thou hast trodden down strength.
Salute all your prelates, and all the saints. The brethren from Italy salute you.
When it was told to Saul that David had gone to Keilah, Saul said, "God hast given him into my hand, because he hast shut himself in by going into a city with two barred gates.
And Nabal answered David's servants and said, Who is David? and who is the son of Jesse? there are many servants now-a-days that break away every man from his master.
Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find favor to help in time of need.
now, then, may we go forth unto him without the camp, his reproach bearing;
Marriage honorable in all, and the bed undefiled. For fornicators and adulterers God will judge.
But David took his oath again and said, Your father sees that I am dear to you; so he says to himself, Let Jonathan have no idea of this, for it will be a grief to him; but as Jehovah is living, and as your soul is living, there is only a step between me and death.
And the name of his first-born son is Joel, and the name of his second Abijah, judges in Beer-Sheba:
Jonathan answered Saul, "David earnestly asked permission from me to go up to Beth-lehem.
Yea, and if I am poured out on the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice, and rejoice with you all.
And each stood in his place all around the camp, and all the camp ran, and they cried out as they fled.
as to whom it had been said, In Isaac shall thy seed be called:
So he went down and had talk with the woman; and she was pleasing to Samson.
Because it is not possible for the blood of oxen and goats to take away sins.
for ye know that also afterwards, wishing to inherit the blessing, he was disapproved of, for a place of reformation he found not, though with tears having sought it.
And the Spirit of Jehovah first came on him in Mahaneh-dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.
Now the Philistines gathered together all their armies to Aphek; and Israel encamped by the spring which is in Jezreel.
He had thirty sons; and thirty daughters he sent outside his clan, and thirty daughters he brought in from outside his clan for his sons. He judged Israel seven years.
And all the men of Israel were gathered against the city, knit together as one man.
But after the judge was dead, they returned, and did much worse things than their fathers had done, following foreign gods, serving them and adoring them. They left not their own inventions, and the stubborn way, by which they were accustomed to walk.
And after him arose Jair, a Gileadite, and judged Israel twenty and two years.
And the children of Israel made request to Jehovah, (for the ark of the agreement of Jehovah was there in those days,
Samuel did that which Yahweh spoke, and came to Beth-lehem. The elders of the city came to meet him trembling, and said, "Do you come peaceably?"
and this I pray, that your love yet more and more may abound in full knowledge, and all justice,
And they said to Jephthah, Come and be our chief so that we may make war against the children of Ammon.
With knowledge of the good word of God, and of the powers of the coming time,
And Saul saith to his servants, `Seek for me a woman possessing a familiar spirit, and I go unto her, and inquire of her;' and his servants say unto him, `Lo, a woman possessing a familiar spirit in En-dor.'
And the boy Samuel grew on, and was in favor both with even Jehovah, and also with men.
Abimelech the son of Jerubbaal went to Shechem to his mother's brothers, and spoke with them, and with all the family of the house of his mother's father, saying,
Ephraim also did not slay the Chanaanite that dwelt in Gazer, but dwelt with him.
For the law having a shadow of the good things to come, not the very image of the things; by the selfsame sacrifices which they offer continually every year, can never make the comers thereunto perfect:
The watchers saw a man come out of the city, and they said to him, "Please show us the entrance into the city, and we will deal kindly with you."
And the Philistines put themselves in array against Israel: and when they joined battle, Israel was smitten before the Philistines; and they slew of the army in the field about four thousand men.
And they ask again at Jehovah, `Hath the man yet come hither?' and Jehovah saith, `Lo, he hath been hidden near the vessels.'
I strongly press upon you to do this, that I may be restored to you sooner.
and falleth at his feet and saith, `On me, my lord, the iniquity; and let, I pray thee, thy handmaid speak in thine ear, and hear the words of thy handmaid.
And it came to pass, when he had ended speaking to Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
The people came to Beth-el, and sat there until evening before God, and lifted up their voice, and wept severely.
Then Saul said to Jehovah, the God of Israel, Why have you not given me an answer today? If the sin is in me or in Jonathan my son, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, give Urim, and if it is in your people Israel, give Thummim. And by the decision of Jehovah, Saul and Jonathan were marked out, and the people went free.
He took the people, and divided them into three bands, and laid wait in the field; and he looked, and, behold, the people came out of the city. So, he rose up against them, and struck them.
Them other of Sisera looketh out at the window, And crieth through the lattice, Why is his chariot so long in coming? Why tarry the trampings of his chariots?
that ye be not sluggish, but imitators of those who through faith and patience have been inheritors of the promises.
and the peace of God, that is surpassing all understanding, shall guard your hearts and your thoughts in Christ Jesus.
And after him, Abdon, the son of Hillel, the Pirathonite, was judge of Israel.
But if you are afraid to go down, go with Purah your servant down to the camp.
but all Israel went down to the Philistines, each man to sharpen his own plowshare, mattock, ax, and sickle.
For this child did I pray, and Jehovah hath granted me my petition, which I asked of him.
And they slaughter the bullock, and bring in the youth unto Eli,
And Benjamin came again at that time; and they gave them wives which they had saved alive of the women of Jabeshgilead: and yet so they sufficed them not.
And Jephthah the Gileadite hath been a mighty man of valor, and he son of a woman, a harlot; and Gilead begetteth Jephthah,
and all this assembly shall know that Jehovah saves not with sword and spear; for the battle is Jehovah's, and he will give you into our hands.
greater wealth having reckoned the reproach of the Christ than the treasures in Egypt, for he did look to the recompense of reward;
So Jephthah passed over to the children of Ammon to fight against them; and Yahweh delivered them into his hand.
Saul said, "Draw near here, all you chiefs of the people; and know and see in which this sin hast been today.
You have put all things in subjection under his feet." For in that he subjected all things to him, he left nothing that is not subject to him. But now we don't see all things subjected to him, yet.
And he brought him down, and behold, they were spread over the whole land, eating and drinking, and dancing, because of all the great spoil that they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
Since therefore the children partake of blood and flesh, he also, in like manner, took part in the same, that through death he might annul him who hast the might of death, that is, the devil;
When the time had come, Hannah conceived, and bare a son; and she named him Samuel, saying, "Because I have asked him of Yahweh."
And all Midian and Amalek and the children of the east were gathered together, and went over, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
Then seeing that are had uncovered to her all his mind, she sent to the princes of the Philistines, speaking: Come up this once more, for now he hath opened his heart to me. And they went up taking with them the money which they had promised.
To them that were in Beth-el, and to them that were in south Ramoth, and to them that were in Jattir,
And the old man answered him: Peace be with thee: I will furnish all things that are necessary: only I beseech thee, stay not in the street.
nor by blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood, hast entered in once for all into the [holy of] holies, having found an eternal redemption.
Indeed, nearly everything is purified with blood according to the law, and apart from the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness.
When Jacob was come into Egypt, and your fathers cried unto Jehovah, then Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, who brought forth your fathers out of Egypt, and made them dwell in this place.
Let not my lord, I pray thee, regard this base fellow, even Nabal: for as his name is, so is he; Nabal is his name, and folly is with him: but I thy handmaid saw not the young men of my lord, whom thou didst send.
each of you not looking out for your own interests, but also each of you for the interests of others.
Now there was a man in Maon whose business was in Carmel; he was a great man and had three thousand sheep and a thousand goats: and he was cutting the wool of his sheep in Carmel.
For men swear by one greater than themselves: and an oath for confirmation is the end of all their controversy.
And said: This will be the right of the king, that shall reign over you: He will take your sons, and put them in his chariots, and will make them his horsemen, and his running footmen to run before his chariots,
And God sent back on to the heads of the men of Shechem all the evil they had done, and the curse of Jotham, the son of Jerubbaal, came on them.
and Jesse made seven of his sons pass before Samuel, but Samuel said to Jesse, "Yahweh hast not chosen any of these."
God hath delivered into your hands the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb: and what was I able to do in comparison of you? Then their anger was abated toward him, when he had said that.
Then all the children of Israel rising up out of the places where they were, set their army in battle array, in the place which is called Baalthamar. The ambushes also that were about the city, began by little and little to come forth,
And the people the men of Israel encourageth themselves, and set their battle again in array in the place where they put themselves in array the first day.
The men of Israel turned again on the children of Benjamin, and smote them with the edge of the sword, both the entire city, and the livestock, and all that they found. Moreover all the cities which they found they set on fire.
Then said the trees unto the vine, Come thou, and reign over us.
And the men of Israel and of Judah arose, and shouted, and pursued the Philistines, until thou comest to the ravine and to the gates of Ekron. And the wounded of the Philistines fell down on the way to Shaaraim, even to Gath, and to Ekron.
`I have repented that I caused Saul to reign for king, for he hath turned back from after Me, and My words he hath not performed;' and it is displeasing to Samuel, and he crieth unto Jehovah all the night.
And might deliver them, who through the fear of death were all their lifetime subject to servitude.
And the sons of Eli were sons of Belial; they knew not Jehovah.
Now the woman had a fatted calf in the house, and she made haste and killed it; and taking meal kneaded it, and baked some unleavened bread,
And Samuel told all the words of Jehovah unto the people that asked of him a king.
And one of the same place answered and said, But who is their father? Therefore it became a proverb, Is Saul also among the prophets?
For he that hast entered into his rest, he also hast rested from his works, as God did from his own.
And Samson said to the lad that held him by the hand, Let loose of me, and suffer me to feel the pillars upon which the house stands, that I may lean upon them.
For if that former had been faultless, there should not indeed a place have been sought for a second.
And his father-in-law, the damsel's father, retained him; and he abode with him three days: so they did eat and drink, and lodged there.
for in that he to himself being tempted, he is able to help those who are tempted.
And Jonathan said: Far be this from thee: for if I should certainly know that evil is determined by my father against thee, I could do no otherwise than tell thee.
And then when Yahweh hast done for my lord according to all the good that he hast spoken concerning you, and hast appointed you as leader over Israel,
And Saul buildeth an alter to Jehovah; with it he hath begun to build altars to Jehovah.
And Isai called Abinadab, and brought him before Samuel. And he said: Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
And do ye all things without murmurings and hesitations;
The bows of mighty warriors are shattered, but those who stumble gird themselves with strength.
And the Philistines were afraid, for they said, God is come into the camp. And they said, Woe unto us! for there hath not been such a thing heretofore.
And perceived as it were a pillar of smoke rise up from the city; and Benjamin looking back, saw that the city was taken, and that the flames ascended on high;
And one of the young men answered and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Beth-lehemite who is skilled in playing, and he is a valiant man and a man of war, and skilled in speech, and of good presence, and even Jehovah, is with him.
And Caleb said, I will give Achsah, my daughter, as wife to the man who overcomes Kiriath-sepher and takes it.
I beseech Euodias, and beseech Syntyche, that they be of the same mind in the Lord.
Jehovah is the giver of death and life; sending men down to the underworld and lifting them up.
On the seventh day, they said to Samson's wife, "Entice your husband, that he may declare to us the riddle, lest we burn you and your father's house with fire. Have you called us to beat down us? Isn't that so?"
Now all Midian, and Amalec, and the eastern people were gathered together, and passing over the the Jordan, encamped in the valley of Jezrael.
And Jonathan gave his father Saul a good account of David, and said to him, Let not the king do wrong against his servant, against David; because he hast done you no wrong, and all his acts have had a good outcome for you;
And Jehovah said to Samuel: Hearken to their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said to the men of Israel: Let every man go to his city.
For everyone who lives on milk is not experienced in the word of righteousness, for he is a baby.
But his master said to him, "We will not turn aside to the city of sojourners, who are not from the Israelites; we will cross over up to Gibeah."
And he will appoint him captains of thousands and captains of fifties; and will set them to ear his ground, and to reap his harvest, and to make his instruments of war, and instruments of his chariots.
Through him, then, let us offer up a sacrifice of praise to God continually, that is, the fruit of lips which proclaim allegiance to his name.
Your servants also and handmaids, and your goodliest young men, and your asses he will take away, and put them to his work.
All the valiant men arose, and went all night, and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan, and came to Jabesh, and burnt them there.
If indeed, then, perfection were through the Levitical priesthood -- for the people under it received law -- what further need according to the ordinance of Melchisedek, for another priest to arise, and not to be called according to the ordinance of Aaron?
And Judah said to Simeon his brother: Come up with me into my lot, and fight against the Chanaanite, that I also may go along with thee into thy lot. And Simeon went with him.
and both the tabernacle and all the vessels of the service with blood in like manner he did sprinkle,
and Caleb saith, `He who smiteth Kirjath-Sepher -- and hath captured it -- then I have given to him Achsah my daughter for a wife.'
As to the rest, my brethren, rejoice in Jehovah; the same things to write to you to me indeed is not tiresome, and for you sure;
and it cometh to pass, at the revolution of the days, that Hannah conceiveth, and beareth a son, and calleth his name Samuel, `for, from even Jehovah, I have asked him.'
Abigail came to Nabal; and behold, he held a feast in his house, like the feast of a king. Nabal's heart was merry within him, for he was very drunk. Therefore she told him nothing, until the morning light.
And when Zebah and Zalmunna fled, he pursued after them, and took the two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna, and discomfited all the host.
And I will make Sisera, the captain of Jabin's army, with his war-carriages and his forces, come against you at the river Kishon, where I will give him into your hands.
And Israel is very weak from the presence of Midian, and the sons of Israel cry unto Jehovah.
So Jonathan spoke well about David to his father Saul and said to him, "The king should not sin against his servant David, because he hast not sinned against you, and because his service for you hast been very good.
It is even right for me to think this way on behalf of all of you, because I have you in my heart, because, both in my bonds and in the defense and confirmation of the Good News, you all are partakers with me of grace.
And turning from their road they came to the house of young Levite, the house of Micah, and said to him, Is it well with you?
Let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water.
any one who did set at nought a law of Moses, apart from mercies, by two or three witnesses, doth die,
And all Israel and all the troops went up and came to Beth-el and wept; and they sat there before Yahweh and fasted on that day until eventide; and they offered burnt-offerings and fellowship offerings before Yahweh.
and you will hear what they say; and, afterward you will have courage, and you will go down against the camp." Then he went down with Purah his servant to the outpost of the armed men that were in the camp.
And Jephthah made a vow to Yahweh, and he said, "If indeed you will give the Ammonites into my hand,
who through faith did subdue kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped mouths of lions,
and those indeed are many who have become priests, because by death they are hindered from remaining;
The cook took up the thigh, and that which was on it, and set it before Saul. Samuel said, "Behold, that which hast been reserved! Set it before yourself and eat; because for the appointed time hast it been kept for you, for I said, 'I have invited the people.'" So Saul ate with Samuel that day.
And the watchmen of Saul, looking out from Geba in the land of Benjamin, saw all the army flowing away and running here and there.
But David said to Abishai, "Do not destroy him! For who hast stretched out his hand against Yahweh's anointed one and remained blameless?"
There remaineth therefore a rest to the people of God.
And at these words about the ark of God, Eli, falling back off his seat by the side of the doorway into the village, came down on the earth so that his neck was broken and death overtook him, for he was an old man and of great weight. He had been judging Israel for forty years.
David therefore went from thence and fled to the cave of Odollam. And when his brethren, and all his father's house had heard of it, they went down to him thither;
Then answered one of the servants, and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Beth-lehemite that is skilful in playing, and a mighty valiant man, and a man of war, and prudent in matters, and a comely person, and Jehovah is with him.
And he said unto her, What form is he yourselves? And she said, An old man cometh up; and he is covered with a robe. And Saul perceived that it was Samuel, and he stooped with his face to the ground, and bowed himself.
And the Philistines seize him, and pick out his eyes, and bring him down to Gaza, and bind him with two brazen fetters; and he is grinding in the prison-house.
Now after David's talk with Saul was ended, the soul of Jonathan was joined with the soul of David, and David became as dear to him as his very life.
and Nob, the city of the priests, he hath smitten by the mouth of the sword, from man even unto woman, From infant even unto suckling, and ox, and ass, and sheep, by the mouth of the sword.
And it cometh to pass, at the time of the giving of Merab daughter of Saul to David, that she hath been given to Adriel the Meholathite for a wife.
Then Jonathan said, "My father hast troubled the land. Please look how my eyes have brightened, because I tasted a little of this honey.
I have sent him therefore the more diligently, that, when you see him again, you may rejoice, and that I may be less sorrowful.
From now on I will not go on driving out from before them any of the nations which at the death of Joshua were still living in this land;
Not as though I hast already attained, or were already perfect: but I follow after, if I may by any means apprehend, wherein I am also taken by Christ Jesus.
Now one day Jonathan, the son of Saul, said to the young man who was with him, looking after his arms, Come, let us go over to the Philistine force over there. But he said nothing to his father.
Moreover, my father, behold, yes, see the skirt of your robe in my hand; for in that I cut off the skirt of your robe, and didn't kill you, know and see that there is neither evil nor disobedience in my hand, and I have not sinned against you, though you hunt for my life to take it.
And he brought down the people to the water; and Jehovah said to Gideon, Every one that lappeth of the water with his tongue, as a dog lappeth, him shalt thou set by himself; likewise every one that is bowed down on his knees to drink.
Therefore, just as the Holy Spirit says, "Today, if you hear his voice,
In the same way Christ did not take for himself the glory of being made a high priest, but was given it by him who said, You are my Son, this day I have given you being:
And Abimelech dwelt at Arumah. And Zebul drove out Gaal and his brethren, that they might not dwell in Shechem.
Then Samuel summoned the people to Yahweh at Mizpah,
He will take your fields, your vineyards, and your olive Asherim, even their best, and give them to his servants.
At the sound of those dividing the sheep among the watering places, there they will recount the righteous works of Yahweh, the righteous works for his warriors in Israel. Then the people of Yahweh went down to the gates.
Saul said to the troops that were with him, "Please call the roll and see who hast gone from us." So they called the roll and found that Jonathan and his armor bearer were not present.
Saul said to Samuel, "But I have obeyed Yahweh's voice, and have gone the way which Yahweh sent me, and have brought Agag the king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed the Amalekites.
For this is the covenant which I will make to the house of Israel after those days, saith Jehovah: I will give my laws into their mind, and in their heart will I write them: and I will be their God, and they shall be my people;
Then Saul said to the people who were with him, Let everyone be numbered and let us see who hast gone from us. And when they had been numbered, it was seen that Jonathan and his servant were not there.
And on the third day I will send arrows from my bow against itself side as if at a mark.
The servant again answered Saul and said, "Look, I have in my hand a quarter shekel of silver. I will give it to the man of God so that he will tell us our way."
And he said to all Israel: Be you on one side, and I with Jonathan my son will be on the other side. And the people answered Saul: Do what seemeth good in thy eyes.
The children of Dan set up for themselves the engraved image; and Jonathan, the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, and his sons were priests to the tribe of the Danites until the day of the captivity of the land.
They sent therefore and gathered all the lords of the Philistines unto them, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they answered, Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried about unto Gath. And they carried the ark of the God of Israel about thither.
So David went to a secret place in the country; and when the new moon came, the king took his place at the feast.
The watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked; and behold, the multitude melted away and scattered.
Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, detained before Jehovah; and his name was Doeg, an Edomite, the ascent of the herdsmen that belonged to Saul.
And it cometh to pass afterwards that he loveth a woman in the valley of Sorek, and her name Delilah,
And Saul speaketh unto Jonathan his son, and unto all his servants, to put David to death,
by faith we understand the ages to have been prepared by a saying of God, in regard to the things seen not having come out of things appearing;
"In a very little while, he who comes will come, and will not wait for him.
But the servant said to him, See now, in this village there is a man of God, who is highly honored, and everything he says comes true: let us go there now; it may be that he will give us directions about our journey.
And some one of Israel said: Have you seen this man that is come up, for he is come up to defy Israel. And the man that shall slay him, the king will enrich with great riches, and will give him his daughter, and will make his father's house free from tribute in Israel.
And they answer them and say, `He is; lo, before thee! haste, now, for to-day he hath come in to the city, for the people hath a stated sacrifice in a high place.
And this man went up out of his city yearly to worship and to sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, the priests of Jehovah, were there.
Then said David, Jehovah, the God of Israel, thy servant hath heard for certain that Saul seeketh to come to Keilah, to destroy the city for my sake.
The angel of God said to him, "Take the food and the unleavened cakes and put them on this rock; pour the broth over it." And he did so.
So David hid himself in the field. When the new moon had come, the king sat himself down to eat food.
Harden not your hearts, as in the provocation, in the day of Massah in the wilderness;
Then answered the five men that went to spy out the country of Laish, and said unto their brethren, Do ye know that there is in these houses an ephod, and teraphim, and a graven image, and a molten image? now therefore consider what ye have to do.
And Gideon said to them, I will not rule over you, neither shall my son rule over you: Jehovah will rule over you.
And Adonibezec fled: and they pursued after him and took him, and cut off his fingers and toes.
And Samson said to the boy who took him by the hand, Let me put my hand on the pillars supporting the house, so that I may put my back against them.
For we who have believed enter into rest, just as he hast said, "As I swore in my anger, 'They will never enter into my rest.'" And yet these works have been accomplished from the foundation of the world.
And Saul said, God do so [to me] and more also; thou shalt certainly die, Jonathan.
Saul said, "Tell David, 'The king desires no dowry except one hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be avenged of the king's enemies.'" Now Saul thought he would make David fall by the hand of the Philistines.
When I and all that are with me blow on the trumpet, you must also blow on the trumpets and surround the camp, and you must say, 'To Yahweh and to Gideon!'"
And Saul smote the Amalekite from Havilah until thou comest to Shur that is over against Egypt.
So he sent and made him come in. Now he had red hair and beautiful eyes and pleasing looks. And Jehovah said, Come, put the oil on him, for this is he.
And Manoah said to the angel of Yahweh, "Please stay, and let us prepare a young he-goat for you."
And it came to pass, when he was come, that he blew the trumpet in the hill-country of Ephraim, and the children of Israel went down with him from the mount, and he before them.
But if they say, Come up to us; then we will go up, for Jehovah hast given them into our hands: and this will be the sign to us.
And the Ziphites come in unto Saul, at Gibeah, saying, `Is not David hiding himself in the height of Hachilah, on before the desert?'
But the children of Belial said, How should this man save us? And they despised him, and brought him no gifts. But he was as one deaf.
and the sons of worthlessness have said, `What! this one doth save us!' and they despise him, and have not brought to him a present; and he is as one deaf.
And his armor bearer said, "Do all that is in your heart that you are inclined to do. I am with you all of the way!
And they said, "Why, Yahweh, the God of Israel, hast it happened to-day in Israel that one tribe is lacking from Israel?"
And Joshua sendeth the people away, and the sons of Israel go, each to his inheritance, to possess the land;
Let our lord now speak; thy servants are before thee; they shall seek out a man, a skilful player on a harp; and it shall come to pass, when the evil spirit from God is upon thee, that he shall play with his hand, and thou shalt be well.
They were a wall unto us both by night and day, all the while we were with them keeping the sheep.
I will make him know that I am about to judge his household forever because of the iniquity that he knoweth for his sons were bringing curses on themselves, but he did not rebuke them.
And Saul said: I have sinned, return, my son David, for I will no more do thee harm, because my life hath been precious in thy eyes this day: for it appeareth that I have done foolishly, and have been ignorant in very many things.
And that year the children of Israel were crushed under their yoke; for eighteen years all the children of Israel on the other side of the Jordan, in the land of the Amorites which is in Gilead, were cruelly crushed down.
This is the thing you will do: you will destroy every man and every woman who had sex with a man."
Who can have compassion on them that are ignorant and that err: because he himself also is compassed with infirmity.
And the child Samuel ministered unto Jehovah before Eli. And the word of Jehovah was precious in those days; there was no open vision.
By faith he left Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king; for he persevered, as seeing him who is invisible.
Nevertheless to abide in the flesh is more needful for you.
And this is what you shall observe: Every male, and all women that have known men, you shall kill, but the virgins you shall save.
Moreover, that entire generation was gathered to their ancestors, and another generation grew up after them who did not know Yahweh or the work he had done for Israel.
And Saul knew David's voice, and said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord, O king.
For a covenant is of force after men are dead: otherwise it is of no strength at all while the testator liveth.
When the people had come into the camp, the elders of Israel said, "Why hast Yahweh defeated us to-day before the Philistines? Let us get the ark of Yahweh's covenant out of Shiloh and bring it to us, that it may come among us, and save us out of the hand of our enemies."
And Manoah rose up and went after his wife, and came to the man, and said to him, Art thou the man that didst speak to the woman? And he said, I am.
Between her feet he bowed down, he fell, he lay down: Between her feet he bowed down, he fell, Where he bowed down, there he fell, overcome.
How much more will the blood of Christ, who, being without sin, made an oblation of himself to God through the Holy Spirit, make your hearts clean from dead works to be servants of the living God?
The woman came to Saul, and saw that he was very troubled, and said to him, "Behold, your servant hast listened to your voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have listened to your words which you spoke to me.
And David said to Abiathar the priest, the son of Ahimelech, Come here to me with the ephod. And Abiathar took the ephod to David.
And his servants declare to David these words, and the thing is right in the eyes of David, to be son-in-law to the king; and the days have not been full,
Don't turn aside to go after vain things which can't profit or deliver, for they are vain.
For the word of God is living and effectual, and more swift than any two edged sword; and reaching unto the division of the soul and the spirit, of the joints also and the marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of heart.
But Doeg the Edomite, who was stationed among the servants of Saul, answered and said, "I saw the son of Jesse going to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.
Consequently a sabbath rest remains for the people of God.
Then David said to the Philistine, "You come to me with a sword, with a spear, and with a javelin; but I come to you in the name of Yahweh of Armies, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you have defied.
So that all who fell that day of Benjamin were twenty-five thousand men who drew the sword. All these were men of valor.
that ye may be guiltless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation, among whom ye shine as lights in the world;
They that were full have hired themselves out for bread; and the hungry are no more: Even the barren beareth seven; and she that hath many children is waxed of no account.
Be strong and quit yourselves like men, O ye Philistines, that ye be not servants unto the Hebrews, as they have been to you: quit yourselves like men, and fight.
Saul disguised himself and put on other clothing, and went, he and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night. Then he said, "Please consult for me by the familiar spirit, and bring me up whomever I shall name to you."
But the people took of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the chief of the things which should have been utterly destroyed, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.
Then sang Deborah and Barak the son of Abinoam on that day, saying,
And David arose, and came to the place where Saul had encamped: and David beheld the place where Saul lay, and Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his host: and Saul lay in the trench, and the people encamped round about him.
His mother used to make for him a small robe and take it to him year by year whenever she came up with her husband to offer the annual sacrifice.
And Sisera gathered together all his chariots, even nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from Harosheth of the Gentiles unto the brook of Kishon.
God having foreseen some better thing for us, that they should not be made perfect without us.
And Saul saith, `I have sinned; turn back, my son David, for I do evil to thee no more, because that my soul hath been precious in thine eyes this day; lo, I have acted foolishly, and do err very greatly.'
"Don't keep talking so exceedingly proudly. Don't let arrogance come out of your mouth, For Yahweh is a God of knowledge. By him actions are weighed.
Then he said, "Why is my lord pursuing after his servant? For what have I done? And what evil is in my hand?
And he said to her, What is his form? And she said, It is an old man coming up covered with a garment. And Saul saw that it was Samuel, and with his face bent down to the earth he gave him honor.
But the children of Israel, adding new sins to their old ones, did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served idols, the Baalim and Astaroth, and the gods of Syria and of Sidon and of Moab and of the children of Ammon and of the Philistines; and they left Jehovah, and did not serve him.
And the Philistines were afraid, for they said, God is come into the camp. And they said, Woe unto us! for there hast not been such a thing heretofore.
And it came to pass when Samuel was old, that he made his sons judges over Israel.
And Samuel did what Jehovah said, and came to Beth-lehem. And the elders of the city came trembling to meet him, and said, Dost thou come peaceably?
So the Philistines were subdued and they did not come into the territory of Israel again, and the hand of Yahweh was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And Saul's servants said to him, Behold now, an evil spirit from God troubles thee.
Shall I then take my bread, and my water, and my flesh that I have killed for my shearers, and give it unto men, whom I know not whence they be?
And Jehovah again appeared in Silo, for Jehovah revealed himself to Samuel in Silo, according to the word of Jehovah. And the word of Samuel came to pass to all Israel.
And they came down from the high place into the city, and he spoke with Saul upon the roof.
So when David returned from striking down the Philistine, Abner took him and brought him before Saul. The head of the Philistine was in his hand.
Then build an altar to Yahweh your God on the top of this stronghold, in an orderly way, and take the second bull, and offer a burnt-offering with the wood of the Asherah which you shall cut down."
For if he were on earth, he would not be a priest at all, seeing there are priests who offer the gifts according to the law;
And Yahweh said, "Judah will go up. I hereby give the land into his hand."
And Eli heard the noise of the crying, and said, What is the noise of this tumult? And the man came hastily, and told Eli.
And Abimelech chased him, and he fled before him; many fell slain up to the entrance of the gate.
So David and his men came to the city, and, behold, it was burned with fire; and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters, were taken captive.
Then Saul said to his servants, "Seek for me a woman who hast a familiar spirit, that I may go to her, and inquire of her." His servants said to him, "Behold, there is a woman who hast a familiar spirit at Endor."
and Israel and the Philistines set in array rank to meet rank.
And they spoke to him, saying, No; but we will bind thee fast, and deliver thee into their hand; but we certainly shall not put thee to death. And they bound him with two new cords, and brought him up from the cliff.
May grace be with you all.
We see that they were not able to enter in because of unbelief.
Then Jephthah fled from his brethren, and dwelt in the land of Tob. And vain men were gathered to Jephthah, and they made expeditions with him.
The five men who went to spy out the land went up, and came in there, and took the engraved image, the ephod, the teraphim, and the molten image; and the priest stood by the entrance of the gate with the six hundred men armed with weapons of war.
As to the man Micah, he hath a house of gods, and he maketh an ephod, and teraphim, and consecrateth the hand of one of his sons, and he is to him for a priest;
So take care to get knowledge of all the secret places where he is taking cover, and be certain to come back to me, and I will go with you; and without doubt, if he is anywhere in the land, I will get him, among all the families of Judah.
Jonathan said to David: O Jehovah, the God of Israel, if I shall uncover my father's mind, to-morrow or the day after, and there be anything good for David, and I send not immediately to thee, and make it known to thee,
And I took you out of the hands of the Egyptians and out of the hands of all who were cruel to you, and I sent them out by force from before you and gave you their land;
And all Israel, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, knew that Samuel was established a prophet of Jehovah.
And his parents knew not that the thing was done by Jehovah, and that he sought an occasion against the Philistines. for at that time the Philistines had dominion over Israel.
And the custom of the priests with the people was this: When any man brought a sacrifice, as the food was boiling, the servant of priest would take a three-pronged food fork in his hand
And Saul commanded all the people to go down to fight against Ceila, and to besiege David, and his men.
And said to Saul: Why dost thou hear the words of men that say David seeketh thy hurt?
According to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt even unto this day, wherewith they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so do they also unto thee.
And the servants of Saul speak in the ears of David these words, and David saith, `Is it a light thing in your eyes to be son-in-law to the king -- and I a poor man, And lightly esteemed?'
For I have told him that I will judge his house forever, for the iniquity which he knoweth because his sons brought a curse on themselves, and he didn't limit them.
And he joined to him the children of Ammon, and Amalec: and he went and overthrew Israel, and possessed the city of palm-trees.
As Samuel turned around to go, he caught hold of the border of his robe, and it tore.
looking with care to see that no man among you in his behaviour comes short of the grace of God; for fear that some bitter root may come up to be a trouble to you, and that some of you may be made unclean by it;
for he was yet in the body of his father when Melchizedek met him.
and also I have caused him to be asked for Jehovah, all the days that he hath lived -- he is asked for Jehovah;' and he boweth himself there before Jehovah.
After that, the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanite who lived in the hill country, and in the South, and in the lowland.
Then came the word of Jehovah unto Samuel, saying,
and they took their daughters as wives, and gave their daughters to their sons, and served their gods.
At the time all punishment seems to be pain and not joy: but after, those who have been trained by it get from it the peace-giving fruit of righteousness.
Abimelech was prince over Israel three years.
David also arose afterward, and went out of the cave, and cried after Saul, saying, My lord the king. And when Saul looked behind him, David stooped with his face to the earth, and bowed himself.
that ye may become guiltless and harmless, children of God, unblemished in the midst of a generation crooked and perverse, among whom ye do appear as luminaries in the world,
`For freeing freemen in Israel, For a people willingly offering themselves Bless ye Jehovah.
And Michas said: Tarry with me, and be unto me a father and a priest, and I will give thee every year ten pieces of silver, and a double suit of apparel, and thy victuals.
And the sons of Israel say, `Who he that hath not come up in the assembly out of all the tribes of Israel unto Jehovah?' for the great oath hath been concerning him who hath not come up unto Jehovah to Mizpeh, saying, `He is surely put to death.'
And all that day Abimelech was fighting against the town; and he took it, and put to death the people who were in it, and had the village pulled out and covered with salt.
And Manoah said to the angel of Jehovah, I pray thee, let us detain thee, and we will make ready a he-goat for thee.
then he said, `Lo, I come to do, O God, Thy will;' he doth take away the first that the second he may establish;
for a tent was prepared, the first, in which was both the lamp-stand, and the table, and the bread of the presence -- which is called `Holy;'
And it came to pass, when they were come, that he looked on Eliab, and said, Surely the Lord's anointed is before him.
Then David said to Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, brother of Joab, Who will go down with me to the tents of Saul? And Abishai said, I will go down with you.
When I saw that you didn't save me, I put my life in my hand, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Yahweh delivered them into my hand. Why then have you come up to me today, to fight against me?"
And she saith unto her father, `Let this thing be done to me; desist from me two months, and I go on, and have gone down on the hills, and I weep for my virginity -- I and my friends.'
And Samuel cometh in unto Saul, and Saul saith to him, `Blessed thou of Jehovah; I have performed the word of Jehovah.'
Be careful about nothing; but in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God;
But without faith it is impossible to please him: for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him.
So Gedeon went in, and boiled a kid, and made unleavened loaves of a measure of flour: and laying the flesh in a basket, and the broth of the flesh into a pot, he carried all under the oak, and presented to him.
And Eli blessed Elkanah and his wife, and said, Jehovah give thee seed of this woman for the loan which is lent to Jehovah. And they went to their own home.
And said to her: How long wilt thou, be drunk? digest a little the wine, of which thou hast taken too much.
The men of Kiriath Jearim came, and took Yahweh's ark, and brought it into Abinadab's house on the hill, and consecrated Eleazar his son to keep Yahweh's ark.
For it is impossible for those who were once enlightened, and have tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Spirit,
And he said to the lad that guided his steps: Suffer me to touch the pillars which support the whole house, and let me lean upon them, and rest a little.
And God hearkened to the voice of Manoah; and the angel of God came again to the woman Whilst she sat in the field; but Manoah her husband was not with her.
And David said to Achish, If now I have found favor in thine eyes, let them give me a place in some country-town, that I may abide there; for why should thy servant abide in the royal city with thee?
And Gideon saith unto God, `Let not Thine anger burn against me, and I speak only this time; let me try, I pray Thee, only this time with the fleece -- let there be, I pray Thee, drought on the fleece alone, and on all the earth let there be dew.'
And he did valiantly, and smote the Amalekites, and delivered Israel out of the hands of their spoilers.
And the children of Israel arose and went up to Beth-el, and learned of God, and said, Which of us shall go up first to the battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah first.
And now, let not my blood fall to the earth far from the face of Jehovah; for the king of Israel is come out to seek a single flea, as when they hunt a partridge that on the mountains.
Give thought to him who hast undergone so much of the hate of sinners against himself, so that you may not be attired and feeble of purpose.
and, now, thy kingdom doth not stand, Jehovah hath sought for Himself a man according to His own heart, and even Jehovah, chargeth him for leader over His people, for thou hast not kept that which Jehovah commanded thee.'
Wherefore, even as says the Holy Spirit, To-day if ye will hear his voice,
And Michas filled his hand, and had the young man with him, for his priest, speaking:
And in the fields they saw an Egyptian whom they took to David, and they gave him bread, and he had a meal, and they gave him water for drink;
Now therefore what is under your hand? Please give me five loaves of bread in my hand, or whatever is available."
And exposed his life to dangers, to deliver you from the hands of Midian,
and had taken the women captives that were in it; both great and small: they had put none to death, but had carried them off, and went on their way.
Then Saul said to his armor bearer, "Draw your sword, and thrust me through with it, lest these uncircumcised come and thrust me through, and abuse me!" But his armor bearer would not; for he was terrified. Therefore Saul took his sword, and fell on it.
And she said: The glory is departed from Israel, because the ark of God was taken.
And all the people likewise cut down every man his bough, and followed Abimelech, and put them to the stronghold, and set the hold on fire upon them; so that all the men of the tower of Shechem died also, about a thousand men and women.
Don't consider your servant a wicked woman; for I have been speaking out of the abundance of my complaint and my provocation."
The same night Jehovah said to him, Take ten men of your servants and an ox seven years old, and after casting down the altar of Baal which is your father's, and cutting down the holy tree by itself side,
Sisera summoned all his chariotsall nine hundred chariots of ironand the entire army that was with him from Harosheth Haggoyim to the wadi of Kishon.
Then the men of Israel turned back, and the men of Benjamin were amazed, for they saw that disaster was come upon them.
that by two unchangeable things, in which [it was] impossible that God should lie, we might have a strong encouragement, who have fled for refuge to lay hold on the hope set before us,
And it cometh to pass, when the messenger of Jehovah speaketh these words unto all the sons of Israel, that the people lift up their voice and weep,
So Saul, putting on other clothing, so that he might not be seen to be the king, took two men with him and went to the woman by night; and he said, Now, with the help of the spirit which you have, make the person whose name I will give you come up.
And Elkanah went to Ramah to his house. And the child did minister unto Jehovah before Eli the priest.
Arise, and let us go up to them; for we have seen the land which is exceeding rich and fruitful: refuse not, lose no time: let us go and possess it, there will be no difficulty.
And Saul saith unto him, `Why have ye conspired against me, thou and the son of Jesse, by thy giving to him bread and a sword, and to ask for him at God, to rise against me, to lie in wait, as this day?'
And Judah went up; and Jehovah gave the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hands; and they overcame ten thousand of them in Bezek.
Then said he unto Zebah and Zalmunna, What manner of men were they whom ye slew at Tabor? And they answered, As thou art, so were they; each one resembled the children of a king.
(To whom it was said: In Isaac shall thy seed be called.)
And Samuel hath died, and all Israel mourn for him, and bury him in Ramah, even in his city, and Saul hath turned aside those having familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land.
Then Yahweh's Spirit came on Jephthah, and he passed over Gilead and Manasseh, and passed over Mizpah of Gilead, and from Mizpah of Gilead he passed over to the children of Ammon.
And Jehovah saveth Israel on that day, and the battle hath passed over to Beth-Aven.
And Jehovah raiseth judges, and they save them from the hand of their spoilers;
for they and their cattle come up, with their tents; they come in as the fulness of the locust for multitude, and of them and of their cattle there is no number, and they come into the land to destroy it.
Saul summoned the army and mustered them at Telaim; two hundred thousand foot soldiers and ten thousand men of Judah.
After the death of Joshua, the Israelites learned of Yahweh, saying, "Who will go up first for us against the Canaanites to fight against them?"
The bow of the mighty is overcome, and the weak are girt with strength.
And Saul saith unto Michal, `Why thus hast thou deceived me -- that thou dost send away mine enemy, and he is escaped?' and Michal saith unto Saul, `He said unto me, Send me away; why do I take thee to death?'
According to my earnest expectation and my hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness, as always, so now Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life, or by death.
And Jonathan said, My father hast troubled the land: see, I pray you, that mine eyes are bright, because I tasted a little of this honey.
in these last days did speak to us in a Son, whom He appointed heir of all things, through whom also He did make the ages;
A minister of the sanctuary, and of the true tabernacle, which Jehovah pitched, and not man.
For in [the power of] this the elders have obtained testimony.
For we are the circumcision, who give worship to God and have glory in Jesus Christ, and have no faith in the flesh:
And he found a fresh jawbone of a donkey; he reached down and took it and killed one thousand men with it.
However you did well that you shared in my affliction.
for we have not here a abiding city, but we seek coming one.
Then the children of Israel made prayer to Jehovah; for he had nine hundred iron war-carriages, and for twenty years he was very cruel to the children of Israel.
And Gideon seeth that He a messenger of Jehovah, and Gideon saith, `Alas, Lord Jehovah! because that I have seen a messenger of even Jehovah, face to face!'
Now the Midianites and the Amalekite and all the people of the east were covering the valley like locusts; and their camels were like the sand by the seaside, without number.
And Saul summoneth the people, and inspecteth them in Telaim, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And they slew a bullock, and brought the child to Eli.
And he answered her: If I shall be bound with new ropes, that were never in work, I shall be weak and like other men.
A man of God came to Eli, and said to him, "Yahweh says, 'Did I reveal myself to the house of your father, when they were in Egypt in bondage to Pharaoh's house?
And hast been waiting there from that time, till all who are against him are made a foot-rest for his feet.
And Jehovah was with Judah; and he drove out the inhabitants of the mountain; but could not drive out the inhabitants of the valley, because they had chariots of iron.
And Jehovah being angry with Israel, delivered them into the hands of Chusan Rasathaim king of Mesopotamia, and they served him eight years.
And all Israel went down to the Philistines, every man to get his ploughshare, and his hoe, and his axe, and his sickle sharpened,
Let not my lord the king, I pray, regard this worthless man Nabal: for according to his name, he is a fool, and folly is with him: but I thy handmaid did not see thy servants, my lord, whom thou sentest.
and above over it the cherubim of glory forest-like the mercy-seat; concerning which it is not now [the time] to speak in detail.
looking diligently lest any man fail of the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and thereby many be defiled;
to whom also Abraham divided a tenth part of all being first, by interpretation, king of righteousness, and then also king of Salem, which is king of peace;
And the children of Israel arose, and went up to the house of God, and asked counsel of God, and said, Which of us shall go up first to the battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up first.
David said moreover, Jehovah that delivered me out of the paw of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure.
Then Jael Heber's wife took a tent peg, and took a hammer in her hand, and went softly to him, and struck the pin into his temples, and it pierced through into the ground; for he was in a deep sleep; so he fainted and died.
God bearing joint-witness both with signs and wonders, and manifold authorities, and distributions of the Holy Spirit, according to His will.
but what things were gain to me these I counted, on account of Christ, loss.
And Jonathan cried again after the boy, speaking: Make haste speedily, stand not. And Jonathan's boy gathered up the arrows, and brought them to his teacher:
But they slew of Moab at that time, about ten thousand, all strong and Valiant men: none of them could escape.
For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not have said anything about another day.
We can say that through Abraham even Levi, who receives tithes, hast paid tithes,
And many of the brethren in Jehovah, growing confident by my hordes, are much more bold to speak the word of God without fear.
Blessed among women be Jahel the wife of Haber the Cinite, and blessed be she in her tent.
But don't forget to be doing good and sharing, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.
So the Philistine said to David, "Am I a dog, that you are coming to me with sticks?" Then the Philistine cursed David by his gods.
And Manue said to him: When thy word shall come to pass, what wilt thou that the child should do? or from what shall he keep himself.
He said to them, "What have I now done in comparison with you? Isn't the gleaning of the grapes of Ephraim better than the vintage of Abiezer?
David said, "What have I now done? Is there not a cause?"
and as a covering shalt thou roll them up, and they shall be changed; but *thou* art the Same, and thy years shall not fail.
And after him Elon, a Zebulonite, judged Israel; and he judged Israel ten years.
And Samson reached out and held two of the middle pillars on which the house was resting, and he leaned on them, one on his right and one on his left.
Then Samuel said to the cook, "Bring the portion that I gave to you, about which I said to you, 'Keep it with you.'"
And he said, I have sinned; honor me now, I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and turn again with me, that I may worship Jehovah thy God.
But now hath he obtained a more excellent ministry, by how much also he is the mediator of a better covenant, which was established upon better promises.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and encamped in Shunem; and Saul gathered all Israel together, and they encamped in Gilboa.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.
And Gaal went out before the citizens of Shechem, and fought against Abimelech.
And Gaal the son of Ebed went out, and stood in the entrance of the gate of the city. Then Abimelech rose up, and the people that were with him, out of the ambush.
And they cried to the children of Dan. And they turned their faces, and said to Micah, What aileth thee, that thou comest with such a company?
Jehovah maketh poor, and maketh rich; he bringeth low, and lifteth up.
And Jair died, and was buried in Kamon.
But Adonibezek fled; and they pursued after him, and seized him, and cut off his thumb and his great toes.
"When Jacob had come into Egypt, and your fathers cried to Yahweh, then Yahweh sent Moses and Aaron, who brought your fathers out of Egypt, and made them to dwell in this place.
And it came to pass in those days that the Philistines gathered together their hosts for warfare to fight against Israel. And Achish said to David, Know thou assuredly that thou shalt go out with me to the camp, thou and thy men.
And Nahash the Ammonite said to them, I will make your peace with you on this condition, that all your right eyes are put out; so that I may make it a cause of shame to all Israel.
And Gideon built there an altar to Yahweh, and he called it "Yahweh is peace." To this day it is still in Ophrah of the Abiezrites.
And David son of this Ephrathite of Beth-Lehem-Judah, whose name Jesse, and he hath eight sons, and the man in the days of Saul hath become aged among men;
And the cart came into the field of Joshua the Beth-shemeshite, and stood there; and a great stone was there. And they clave the wood of the cart, and offered up the kine as a burnt-offering to Jehovah.
I know both how to be brought low, and I know how to exceedingly: (everywhere, and in all things I am instructed) both to be full, and to be hungry; both to be multiplied, and to suffer need.
And the people came to Beth-el, and abode there till even before God, and lifted up their voices and wept bitterly,
Therefore also he is able to save completely those who draw near to God through him, because he always lives in order to intercede on their behalf.
And it is our desire that you may all keep the same high purpose in certain hope to the end:
And he goeth up thence Penuel, and speaketh unto them thus, and the men of Penuel answer him as the men of Succoth answered.
And they gave that place the name of Bochim, and made offerings there to Jehovah.
By him therefore let us offer sacrifice of praise continually to God, that is, fruit of lips confessing his name.
far from the noise of the archers, in the places of drawing water, there they will rehearse Yahweh's righteous acts, the righteous acts of his rule in Israel. "Then Yahweh's people went down to the gates.
And it cometh to pass when he finisheth speaking, that he thrusteth away the jaw-bone out of his hand, and calleth that place Ramath-Lehi;
For this reason, holy brothers, marked out to have a part in heaven, give thought to Jesus the representative and high priest of our faith;
But I rejoiced in Jehovah greatly that now at last you have renewed your concern for me, for whom also you were thinking, but you had no opportunity to express it.
And the youth hath not known anything, only Jonathan and David knew the word.
When they came there to the hill, behold, a band of prophets met him; and the Spirit of God came mightily on him, and he prophesied among them.
Now there was a man from Benjamin whose name was Kish, the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Becorath, the son of Aphiah, the son of a Benjaminite, a very wealthy man.
Now Jephthah the Gileadite was a great man of war; he was the son of a loose woman, and Gilead was his father.
Ephraim did not drive out the Canaanites living in Gezer, so the Canaanites lived in their midst in Gezer.
Then Saul said to his servants, Get me a woman who hast control of a spirit so that I may go to her and get directions. And his servants said to him, There is such a woman at En-dor.
And Jehovah called Samuel. And he answered: Here am I.
And Elon the Zebulonite came to his death, and his body was put to rest in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun, one.
And it came to pass in process of time, that the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
For this Melchizedek, king of Salem, priest of God Most High, who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings and blessed him,
Rejoice in Jehovah always! Again I will say, "Rejoice!"
And David saved neither man nor woman alive, to bring tidings to Gath, saying, Lest they should tell on us, saying, So did David, and so will be his manner all the while he dwelleth in the country of the Philistines.
So David overcame the Philistine with his leather band and a stone, wounding the Philistine and causing his death: but David had no sword in his hand.
The bow of the mighty is broken, and they that stumbled are girded with strength.
But ye, beloved, we are persuaded of better things for you, and things that accompany salvation, even though we speak like this.
And they put up for themselves the image which Micah had made, and it was there all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
And it cometh to pass, on the seventh day, that they say to Samson's wife, `Entice thy husband, that he declare to us the riddle, lest we burn thee and the house of thy father with fire; to possess us have ye called for us? is it not?'
And the six hundred men of the children of Dan, girded with their weapons of war, stood at the entrance of the gate.
And the children of Israel again did evil in the sight of Jehovah when Ehud was dead.
And even Jehovah, saith unto the sons of Israel, `[Have I] not [saved you] from the Egyptians, and from the Amorite, from the Bene-Ammon, and from the Philistines?
And they say, `We certainly give;' and they spread out the garment, and cast thither each the ring of his prey;
Did I begin to day to consult Jehovah for him? far be this from me: let not the king suspect such a thing against his servant, or any one in all my father's house: for thy servant knew nothing of this matter, either little or great.
And the sum concerning the things spoken of : we have such a chief priest, who did sit down at the right hand of the throne of the greatness in the heavens,
But those are preaching Christ in a spirit of competition, not from their heart, but with the purpose of giving me pain in my prison.
and he said to the children of Israel, "Yahweh, the God of Israel, says 'I brought Israel up out of Egypt, and I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all the kingdoms that oppressed you.'
And Yahweh said to Gideon, "I will deliver you with the three hundred men lapping up the water; I will give Midian into your hand, so let the other troops go, each to his own place.
When Saul heard that David was uncovered, and the men that were with him, (now Saul abode in Gibeah under a tree in Ramah, having his spear in his hand, and all his servants were standing about him;)
Now David was the son of that Ephrathite of Beth-lehem Judah, whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons. The man was a elderly old man in the days of Saul.
And he said, What is the word that he hast spoken to thee? I pray thee, keep it not back from me: God do so to thee, and more also, if thou keep back anything from me of all the word that he spoke to thee.
The descendants of Judah fought against Jerusalem, and they captured it, put it to the sword, and set the city on fire.
And they went up, and encamped in Kiriath-jearim), in Judah: wherefore they called that place Mahanehdan unto this day: behold, it is behind Kiriath-jearim.
And David saith unto Saul, `Who I? and what my life -- the family of my father in Israel -- that I am son-in-law to the king?'
So the men of Benjamin did this, and got wives for themselves for every one of their number, taking them away by force from the dance; then they went back to their heritage, building up their towns and living in them.
Then Jehovah said to him, Truly, I will be with you, and you will overcome the Midianites as if they were one man.
and Saul gave Michal his daughter, wife to David, to Phalti son of Laish, who of Gallim.
Then Jonathan said to David, "Whatever you pray for, I will do for you."
(for many walk of whom I told you often, and now tell you even weeping, that they the enemies of the cross of Christ:
And there came from opposite Gibeah ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and the battle was severe; but they knew not that disaster was coming upon them.
So David and his men arose in the night, that they might set forward in the morning, and returned to the land of the Philistines: and the Philistines went up to Jezrahel.
Saul said, "No man shall be put to death today; for to-day Yahweh hast rescued Israel."
And the man rose up to depart, but his father-in-law urged him, and he lodged there again.
And it cometh to pass, in their coming in, in David's returning from smiting the Philistine, that the women come out from all the cities of Israel to sing -- also the dancers -- to meet Saul the king, with tabrets, with joy, and with three-stringed instruments;
Now Zebah and Zalmunna were in Karkor, and their camp with them, about fifteen thousand , all that were left of the whole camp of the children of the east; for there had fallen a hundred and twenty thousand men that drew sword.
But if not, let a fire come out from Abimelech and let it devour the lords of Shechem and Beth-Millo; and let a fire come out from the lords of Shechem, and from Beth-Millo, and let it devour Abimelech."
As they went up the ascent to the city, they found young maidens going out to draw water, and said to them, "Is the seer here?"
And Saul said to David, Blessed be thou, my son David: thou shalt certainly do [great things], and shalt certainly prevail. And David went on his way, and Saul returned to his place.
And he had a son whose name was Saul, choice and comely; and there was not among the children of Israel a comelier person than he; from his shoulders and upward he was higher than any of the people.
And, behold, as Barak pursued Sisera, Jael came out to meet him, and said unto him, Come, and I will show thee the man whom thou seekest. And when he came into its tent, behold, Sisera lay dead, and the nail was in his temples.
And Jonathan smiteth the garrison of the Philistines which in Geba, and the Philistines hear, and Saul hath blown with a trumpet through all the land, saying, `Let the Hebrews hear.'
So then, swear to me by Yahweh that you will not cut off my descendants after me and that you will not wipe out my name from my father's house."
And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
So the servants of Saul said to him, "Look please, an evil spirit from God is tormenting you.
And there was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the Danites, and his name was Manoah. And his wife was barren and did not bear.
And he will take your men-servants, and your maid-servants, and your goodliest young men, and your asses, and put them to his work.
And Saul and his men go to seek, and they declare to David, and he goeth down the rock, and abideth in the wilderness of Maon; and Saul heareth, and pursueth after David the wilderness of Maon.
So the men did so; they took two milking cows and armed them to the utility cart, but they shut up their calves in the stall.
Let this mind be in you which was in Christ Jesus,
In calling it new, he hast declared the former to be old. Now what is becoming obsolete and growing old is near to disappearing.
And the trees say to the fig, Come thou, reign over us.
Not that I am looking for an oblation, but for fruit who may be put to your credit.
Then said I: Behold, I am come; In the head of the book it is written of me; that I should do thy will, O God.
And the old man lifting up his eyes, saw the man sitting with his bundles in the street of the city, and said to him: Whence comest thou? and whither goest thou?
and I see that thou art not a saviour, and I put my life in my hand, and pass over unto the Bene-Ammon, and Jehovah giveth them into my hand -- and why have ye come up unto me this day to fight against me?'
and he snatcheth Agag king of Amalek alive, and all the people he hath devoted by the mouth of the sword;
Now Eli was ninety and eight years old; and his eyes were dim, that he could not see.
And the sons of Benjamin say, `They are smitten before us as at the beginning;' but the sons of Israel said, `Let us flee, and draw them away out of the city, unto the highways.'
Nahash the Ammonite said to them, "On this condition I will make it with you, that all your right eyes be gouged out. I will make this dishonor all Israel."
And the man rose up to depart, he, and his concubine, and his servant; and his father-in-law, the damsel's father, said to him, Behold now, the day draws toward eveningI pray you stay all night; behold, the day is declining, lodge here, and let thy heart be merry; and to-morrow get you early on your way, that thou mayest go to thy tent.
And you have knowledge, Philippians, that, when the good news first came to you, when I went away from Macedonia, no church took part with me in the business of giving to the saints, but you only;
And David said to Achimelech: Hast thou here at hand a spear, or a sword? for I brought not my own sword, nor my own weapons with me, for the king's business required haste.
Yahweh hast done to you as he spoke by me. Yahweh hast torn the kingdom out of your hand, and given it to your neighbor, even to David.
Barak called Zebulun and Naphtali together to Kedesh; and ten thousand men followed him; and Deborah went up with him.
The people, the men of Israel, encourageth themselves, and set the battle in array in the place where they set themselves in array the first day.
But the righteous shall live by faith. If he shrinks back, my soul hast no pleasure in him."
esteeming the reproach of the Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt, for he had respect to the recompense.
But the angel of Jehovah was seen no more by Manoah and his wife. Then it was clear to Manoah that he was the angel of Jehovah.
Now therefore come down, as thy soul hath desired to come down: and it shall be our business to deliver him into the king's hands.
whose voice then shook the earth; but now he hast promised, saying, Yet once will *I* shake not only the earth, but also the heaven.
So we see that they could not enter in because of unbelief.
And the Philistines are gathered, and come in, and encamp in Shunem, and Saul gathereth all Israel, and they encamp in Gilboa,
The men of Ephraim said to him, "What is this thing you have done to us, not calling us when you went to fight against the Midianites?" And they quarreled with him severely.
I can do all these things in him who strengtheneth me.
For we made an invasion on the south side of Cerethi, and upon Judah, and upon the south of Caleb, and we burnt Siceleg with fire.
The man departed out of the city, out of Beth-lehem Judah, to live where he could find a place, and he came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, as he traveled.
and a strong tower hath been in the midst of the city, and thither flee do all the men and the women, and all the masters of the city, and they shut behind them, and go up on the roof of the tower.
And Samuel said to Saul: Why hast thou disturbed my rest, that I should be brought up? And Saul said, I am in great distress; for the Philistines fight against me, and God is departed from me, and would not hear me, neither by the hand of prophets, nor by dreams: therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest show me what I shall do.
and `their sins and their lawlessness I will remember no more;'
All Israel heard that Saul had struck the garrison of the Philistines, and also that Israel was had in abomination with the Philistines. The people were gathered together after Saul to Gilgal.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried out with a loud voice; and the woman spoke to Saul, saying, Why hast thou deceived me? Even thou art Saul.
Return therefore, and go in peace, and causeth not the eyes of the princes of the Philistines.
The Gazites were told, "Samson is here!" They surrounded him, and laid wait for him all night in the gate of the city, and were quiet all the night, saying, "Wait until morning light, then we will kill him."
Of the matter which you and I have spoken of, behold, Yahweh is between you and me forever."
wherefore, a kingdom that cannot be shaken receiving, may we have grace, through which we may serve God well-pleasingly, with reverence and of the devout fear;
And Jonathan saith unto David, `Come, and we go out into the field;' and they go out both of them into the field.
and the sons of Israel serve Eglon king of Moab eighteen years.
And therefore I have sworn unto the house of Eli that the iniquity of Eli's house shall not be expiated with sacrifice or oblation for ever.
They blew the three hundred trumpets, and Yahweh set every man's sword against his fellow, and against all the army; and the army fled as far as Beth Shittah toward Zererah, as far as the border of Abel Meholah, by Tabbath.
Some even because of envy and strife preach Christ, but some also because of good will.
and the messenger of Jehovah hath not added again to appear unto Manoah, and unto his wife, then hath Manoah known that He a messenger of Jehovah.
Then David said, Will the men of Keilah give me and my men up to Saul? and Jehovah said, They will give you up.
Ye endure for chastening, God conducts himself towards you as towards sons; for who is the son that the father chastens not?
Revile ye the land of Meroz, said the angel of Jehovah: curse the inhabitants thereof, because they came not to the help of Jehovah, to help his most valiant men.
And the sons of Benjamin do so, and take women according to their number, out of the dancers whom they have taken violently away; and they go, and turn back unto their inheritance, and build the cities, and dwell in them.
and your fields, and your vineyards, and your olive-yards -- the best -- he doth take, and hath given to his servants.
For I have told him that I will judge his house for ever for the iniquity which he knoweth; because his sons made themselves vile, and he restrained them not.
The people grieved for Benjamin, because Yahweh had made a breach in the tribes of Israel.
So on the day of the fight at Michmash not a sword or a spear was to be seen in the hands of any of the people with Saul and Jonathan; only Saul and his son Jonathan had them.
He sent messengers to Abimelech craftily, saying, "Behold, Gaal the son of Ebed and his brothers have come to Shechem; and behold, they incite the city against you.
for where a covenant , the death of the covenant-victim to come in is necessary,
And Gideon went in, and made ready a goat, and an ephah of fine flour in unleavened cakes: the flesh he put in a basket, and he put the broth in a pot, and brought it out to him under the terebinth, and presented it.
So then, please pardon my sin and return with me so that I can worship Yahweh."
"And when you saw that Nahash, the king of the children of Ammon, was coming against you, you said to me, 'No! A king shall reign over us,' although Yahweh your God is your king.
Then David said, Here is the king's spear! let one of the young men come over and get it.
The children of Judah fought against Jerusalem, took it, smote it with the edge of the sword, and set the city on fire.
thou didst love righteousness, and didst hate lawlessness; because of this did He anoint thee -- God, thy God -- with oil of gladness above thy partners;'
So Hannah rose up after they had eaten in Shiloh, and after they had drunk. Now Eli the priest sat upon a seat by a post of the temple of Jehovah.
And the people served Yahweh all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders who outlived Joshua, who saw all the great work Yahweh had done for Israel.
And thrust it into the kettle, or into the caldron, or into the pot, or into the pan: and all that fleshhook brought up, the priest took to himself. Thus did they to all Israel that came to Silo.
And he said to his men: Jehovah be merciful unto me, that I may do no such thing to my master the Lord's anointed, as to lay my hand upon him, because he is the Lord's anointed.
Jephthah judged Israel six years. Then Jephthah the Gileadite died, and he was buried in one of the cities of Gilead.
that in the name of Jesus every knee shall bow, of those that are in heaven, on earth, and under the earth:
Then Samuel said to Saul, Say no more! Let me give you word of what Jehovah hast said to me this night. And he said to him, Say on.
And Samson goeth down -- also his father and his mother, to Timnah, and they come unto the vineyards of Timnah, and lo, a lion's whelp roareth at meeting him,
And Josue sent away the people, and the children of Israel went every one to his own possession to hold it;
Then he said, And what did Samuel say to you?
But if it sends up thorns and evil plants, it is of no use and is ready to be cursed; itself only end is to be burned.
Moreover we have had the fathers of our flesh as chasteners, and we did ; shall we not much rather be in subjection to the Father of spirits, and live?
And David and his men went to Keilah, and fought against the Philistines, and brought away their cattle, and smote them with a great slaughter. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
So they cried out to Yahweh and said, 'We have sinned, because we have forsaken Yahweh and have served the Baals and the Ashtoreths. But now deliver us from the hand of our enemies and we will serve you!'
And Samuel answered Saul, speaking: I am seer, go up before me to the high place, that you may eat with me to day, and I will let thee go in the morning; and tell thee all that is in thy heart.
And it was told the Gazites, saying, Samson is come hither. And they compassed him about, and laid wait for him all night in the gate of the city, and were quiet all the night, saying, In the morning, when it is day, we shall kill him.
For he looked for a city which hath foundations, whose builder and maker is God.
If he say thus, It is well; thy servant shall have peace: but if he be very wroth, then be sure that evil is determined by him.
And I thought necessary Epaphroditus -- my brother, and fellow-workman, and fellow-soldier, and your apostle and servant to my need -- to send unto you,
of how much sorer punishment shall he be counted worthy who the Son of God did trample on, and the blood of the covenant did count a common thing, in which he was sanctified, and to the Spirit of the grace did despite?
Then they went through the wilderness, and went around the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east side of the land of Moab, and they encamped on the other side of the Arnon; but they didn't come within the border of Moab, for the Arnon was the border of Moab.
And Saul said to Ahiah, Let the ephod come here. For he went before Israel with the ephod at that time.
Then Saul said to the people who were with him, "Count now, and see who is missing from us." When they had counted, behold, Jonathan and his armor bearer were not there.
and the princes of the Philistines are passing on by hundreds, and by thousands, and David and his men are passing on in the rear with Achish.
that I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, becoming conformed to his death;
And they buried him in the borders of his possession in Thamnathsare in the hill-country of Ephraim, on the north side of mount Gaas.
And with whom was he wroth forty years? [Was it] not with those who had sinned, whose dead bodies fell in the wilderness?
So Ehud made himself a two-edged sword, a cubit long, which he put on at his right side under his robe.
So Gideon and the hundred men who were with him came to the edge of the camp at the beginning of the middle night-watch, when they had just finished setting up the guards, and they blew on the trumpets and smashed the jars that were in their hands.
And it came to pass, while the ark abode in Kiriath-jearim), that time was long; for it was twenty years: and all the house of Israel lamented after the Lord.
But one man of your family will not be cut off by my hand, and his eyes will be made dark, and grief will be in his heart: and all the offspring of your family will come to their end by the sword of men.
And Jehovah sent Jerobaal, and Badan, and Jephte, and Samuel, and delivered you from the hand of your enemies round about, and you dwelt securely.
Isn't it wheat harvest today? I will call to Yahweh, that he may send thunder and rain; and you will know and see that your wickedness is great, which you have done in Yahweh's sight, in asking for a king."
They were stoned, they were cut up with knives, they were tested, they were put to death with the sword, they went about in sheepskins and in goatskins; being poor and in pain and cruelly attacked,
The woman quickly ran and told her husband, and she said to him, "Look! The man who came to me the other day appeared to me."
But Barak pursued after the chariots and army as far as Harosheth Haggoyim, and all of Sisera's army fell to the edge of the sword; no one was left.
And Saul said, There shall not a man be put to death this day: for to-day Jehovah hath wrought salvation in Israel.
And the children of Judah fought against Jerusalem, and took it, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and set the city on fire.
And Samson went and caught three hundred jackals, and took torches, and turned tail to tail, and put a flaming in the midst between the two tails.
that ye be not sluggard, but imitators of them that through faith and patience inherit the promises.
So his father went down unto the woman; and Samson made there a feast; for so used the young men to do.
And the Philistines gathered together all their armies to Aphek; and Israel encamped by the spring that is in Jizreel.
Now therefore, I pray thee, let my lord the king hear the words of his servant. If Jehovah have stirred thee up against me, let him accept an offering: but if they be the children of men, cursed be they before Jehovah; for they have driven me out this day from abiding in the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
And Judah said to Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my lot, and let us fight against the Canaanite, and I likewise will go with thee into thy lot; and Simeon went with him.
And David learned of Jehovah, saying, Shall I pursue after this troop? shall I overtake them? And he said to him, Pursue; for thou shalt assuredly overtake and shalt certainly recover.
He stayed seven days, according to the time set by Samuel: but Samuel didn't come to Gilgal, and the people were scattering from him.
Show yourselves valiant and be men, ye Philistines, that ye may not have to be servants to the Hebrews, as they have been servants to you: be men, and fight.
but we see Jesus, who made some little inferior to angels on account of suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor; so that by the grace of God he should taste death for every thing.
And David smote the land, and left neither man nor woman alive, and took away the sheep, and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the apparel, and returned, and came to Achish.
For by one offering he hast perfected forever those who are being sanctified.
Then the children of Israel put away the Baalim and Astaroth, and served Jehovah only.
Here I am; witness against me before Jehovah, and before his anointed: whose ox have I taken? or whose ass have I taken? or whom have I defrauded? whom have I oppressed? or of whose hand have I received any bribe to blind mine eyes therewith? and I will restore it you.
O Jehovah, the God of Israel, why is so great an evil come to pass in thy people, that this day one tribe should be taken away from among us?
And Saul said, I will give her to him, so that she may be a cause of danger to him, and so that the hands of the Philistines may be against him. So Saul said to David, To-day you are to become my son-in-law for the second time.
For I know that this shall fall out to me unto salvation, through your prayer, and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
Saul therefore took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went out to seek after David, and his men, even upon the most craggy rocks, which are accessible only to wild goats.
As it is meet for me to think this for you all, for that I have you in my heart; and that in my hordes, and in the defence and confirmation of the gospel, you all are partakers of my joy.
And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to David: and they gave him bread to eat, and water to drink,
Therefore, since we also have such a great cloud of witnesses surrounding us, putting aside every weight and the sin that so easily ensnares us, let us run with patient endurance the race that hast been set before us,
And Gideon took ten men of his servants, and did as Jehovah had said to him. And it came to pass, because he feared his father's house, and the men of the city, if he did it by day, that he did it by night.
Blessed above women shall Jael the wife of Heber Kain be, blessed shall she be above women in the tent.
Then the messenger answered and said, "Israel hast fled before the Philistines. There hast been a great defeat among the troops. Also, your two sons have died, Hophni and Phinehas, and the ark of God hast been captured."
we have an altar, of which to eat they have no authority who the tent are serving,
And the priests' way with the people was this: when any man made an offering, the priest's servant came while the flesh was being cooked, having in his hand a meat-hook with three teeth:
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Saul, when he had heard these words, and his anger was exceedingly kindled.
When they entered the land of Zuph, Saul said to his servant who was with him, "Come, let us return, lest my father cease caring about the female donkeys and worry about us!"
In those days there was no king in Israel. Everyone did that which was right in his own eyes.
Then Abishai said to David, "God hast handed over your enemy into your hand today! So then, please let me pin him to the ground with the spear one time, and I will not strike him twice."
Now the garrison of the Philistines went out to the pass of Micmash.
To them that were in Beth-el, and that were in Ramoth to the south, and to them that were in Jether,
The trees once went forth to anoint a king over them; and they said to the olive-tree, Reign over us.
And some out of contention preach Christ not sincerely: supposing that they raise affliction to my companies.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came on him and he became judge of Israel, and went out to war, and Jehovah gave up Cushan-rishathaim, king of Mesopotamia, into his hands and he overcame him.
His armor bearer said to him, "Do all that is in your heart. Turn and, behold, I am with you according to your heart."
And he had two wives, the name of one was Anna, and the name of the other Phenenna. Phenenna had children: but Anna had no children.
And as she was dying, the women that stood by her said, Fear not; for thou hast borne a son. But she did not answer, neither did she take it to heart.
looking out from the window she gave a cry, the mother of Sisera was crying out through the window, Why is his carriage so long in coming? When will the noise of his wheels be sounding?
And the children of Dan set up the graven image; and Jonathan, the son of Gershom, the son of Manasseh, he and his sons were priests to the tribe of Dan until the day of the captivity of the land.
Some indeed, even out of envy and contention; but some for good will preach Christ.
And Ehud escaped during their tarrying, and hath passed by the pillars, and is escaped to Seirath.
Saul swore to her by Yahweh, saying, "As Yahweh lives, no punishment will happen to you for this thing."
taking a place by so much better than the angels, as he inherits a name more excellent than they.
So on that day Yahweh delivered Israel, and the battle shifted to Beth Aven.
For by it the elders obtained a good message.
This will we do, if God permits.
And he returned after awhile to marry her, and he turned aside to see the carcass of the lion, and there was a swarms of wild honey bees in the body of the lion, and honey.
And when the lad came to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot, Jonathan cried after the lad and said, Is not the arrow away beyond thee?
[It is] necessary, therefore, the pattern indeed of the things in the heavens to be purified with these, and the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these:
And are fallen away: to be renewed again to penance, crucifying again to themselves the Son of God, and making him a mockery.
And now, my lord, even Jehovah, liveth, and thy soul liveth, in that Jehovah hath withheld thee from coming in with blood, and to save thy hand to thee -- now let thine enemies be as Nabal, even those seeking evil unto my lord.
But now bear, I beseech thee, my sin, and return with me, that I may adore Jehovah.
And Samuel caused all the tribes of Israel to come near, and the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
And he saith unto her, `Stand at the opening of the tent, and it hath been if any doth come in, and hath asked thee, and said, Is there a man here? that thou hast said, There is not.'
David asked him, "To whom do you belong? Where are you from?" He said, "I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite; and my master left me, because three days ago I bought sick.
And the cart came into the field of Joshua the Beth-shemite, and came to a stop there by a great stone; and cutting up the wood of the cart they made a burned oblation of the cows to Jehovah.
Then the commanders of the Philistines went out for battle, and as often as they went out, David succeeded more than all the servants of Saul, and his name became very esteemed.
And an angel of Jehovah came up from Gilgal to Bochim, and said, I made you to go up out of Egypt, and have brought you unto the land which I sware unto your fathers; and I said, I will never break my covenant with you.
And when Gideon perceived that he was an angel of Jehovah, Gideon said, Alas, O Lord Jehovah! for because I have seen an angel of the Lord face to face.
He said to them, "Yahweh is witness against you, and his anointed is witness today, that you have not found anything in my hand." They said, "He is witness."
Now on hearing these words which the angel of Jehovah said to all the children of Israel, the people gave themselves up to loud crying and weeping.
But the people took of the plunder, sheep and cattle, the chief of the devoted things, to sacrifice to Yahweh your God in Gilgal."
And I said to you, 'I am Yahweh your God; do not fear the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you are living.' But you have not listened to my voice."
Then Achish gave him Ziklag that day: therefore Ziklag belongs to the kings of Judah unto this day.
And when the people saw him, they praised their god: for they said, Our god hast given into our hands our enemy, and the destroyer of our country, even him who multiplied our slain.
The one point on the north was opposite Micmash and the other on the south was opposite Geba.
And Samuel said to him, Jehovah hast taken away the kingdom of Israel from you this day by force, and hast given it to a neighbor of yours who is better than you.
And Saul said, Go about among the people and say to them, Let every man come here to me with his ox and his sheep, and put them to death here, and take his meal; do no sin against Jehovah by taking the blood with the flesh. So all the people took their oxen with them that night and put them to death there.
Nevertheless, to the extent that we have already attained, let us walk by the same rule. Let us be of the same mind.
And Israel went up against the descendants of Benjamin on the third day, and they took up positions against Gibeah as beforetime.
God hast given into your hand commanders of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb. What have I been able to do in comparison with you?" And their anger against him subsided when he said that.
And these went into Micah's house, and fetched the graven image, the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image. Then said the priest unto them, What do ye?
For the priesthood being changed, there is of necessities a change made also in the law.
For our citizenship is in heaven, from where we also wait for a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ;
He had two wives. The name of one was Hannah, and the name of other Peninnah. Peninnah had children, but Hannah had no children.
Then the children of Israel, crying out to Jehovah, said, Great is our sin against you, for we have given up our God and have been servants to the Baals.
So the people sent to Shiloh, and they brought from thence the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, who sitteth between the cherubim; and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were there by the ark of the covenant of God.
who hath no necessities daily, as the chief priests, first for his own sins to offer up sacrifice, then for those of the people; for this he did once, having offered up himself;
By faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months by his parents; because they saw he was a comely babe, and they feared not the king's edict.
So David checked his men with these words, and didn't know them to rise against Saul. Saul rose up out of the cave, and went on his way.
And David said to Ahimelech the priest, The king hast given me orders and hast said to me, Say nothing to anyone about the business on which I am sending you and the orders I have given you; and a certain place hast been fixed to which the young men are to go.
And they said, There must be an inheritance for them that are escaped of Benjamin, that a tribe be not destroyed out of Israel.
And Saul having his kingdom established over Israel, fought against all his enemies round about, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and Edom, and the kings of Soba, and the Philistines; and whithersoever he turned himself, he overcame.
And Abimelech came to the tower, and fought against it, and he drew near to the entrance of the tower to burn it with fire;
And what shall I yet say? For the time would fail me to tell of Gedeon, Barac, Samson, Jephthe, David, Samuel, and the prophets;
And when all the men of the tower of Shechem heard it, they entered into a hold of the house of god Berith.
and prospered over thee hath the Spirit of Jehovah, and thou hast prophesied with them, and hast been turned to another man;
But Christ as a son over his own house; whose house are we, if we hold fast the confidence and the rejoicing of the hope firm unto the end.
And David goeth thence, and is escaped unto the cave of Adullam, and his brethren hear, and all the house of his father, and go down unto him thither;
Then the Levite, the husband of the woman that was murdered, answered and said, I came to Gibeah that to Benjamin, I and my concubine, to lodge.
So running up to the Philistine and laying his foot on him, David took his sword out of itself cover, and put him to death, cutting off his head with it. And when the Philistines saw that their fighter was dead, they went in flight.
Let your gentle behaviour be clear to all men. Jehovah is near.
For if the blood of goats and oxen, and the dust from the burning of a young cow, being put on the unclean, make the flesh clean:
For the priesthood being changed, there is made of necessities a change also of the law.
And David again and again made attacks on the land till not a man or a woman was still living; and he took away the sheep and the oxen and the asses and the camels and the clothing; And he came back to Achish.
And David sweareth again, and saith, `Thy father hath certainly known that I have found favor in thine eyes, and he saith, Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved; and yet, Jehovah liveth, and thy soul liveth, but -- as a step between me and death.'
The children of Dan said to him, "Don't let your voice be heard among us, lest angry fellows fall on you, and you lose your life, with the lives of your household."
Now the Philistines gathered together their hosts to battle; and they were gathered together at Socoh, which belongs to Judah, and encamped between Socoh and Azekah, in Ephesdammim.
And now, I pray thee, forgive my sin, and turn again with me, that I may worship Jehovah.
If the man said to him, They will immediately burn the fat entire, then take as thy soul desires; he would say [to him], No, but thou shalt give now; and if not, I will take by force.
For there is verily a disannulling of the commandment going before for the weakness and unprofitableness thereof.
The Amorites pressed the descendants of Dan to the hill country, and they did not know them to come down to the Arabah;
Wherefore, the hanging-down hands and the loosened knees set ye up;
David answered the priest and said to him, "Indeed, women were held back from us as it hast been when I've gone out beforehand. And the things of the young men are holy when it is an ordinary journey. How much more to-day will the things be holy?"
He was content and abode with the man, and was unto him as one of his sons.
And Gideon said unto him, Oh my Lord, if Jehovah be with us, why then is all this befallen us? and where be all his signs which our fathers told us of, saying, Did not Jehovah bring us up from Egypt? but now Jehovah hath forsaken us, and delivered us into the hands of the Midianites.
But if unjustly: let fire come out from him, and consume the inhabitants of Shechem, and the village of Mello: and let fire come out from the men of Shechem, and from the village of Mello, and devour Abimelech.
Now between the narrow roads over the mountains by which Jonathan was making his way to the Philistines' forces, there was a sharp overhanging rock on one side, and a sharp rock on the other side: one was named Bozez and the other Seneh.
Therefore he was obligated in all things to be made like his brothers, that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make atonement for the sins of the people.
In nothing be anxious, but in everything, by prayer and petition with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God.
and to those in Aroer, and to those in Siphmoth, and to those in Eshtemoa
quenched power of fire, escaped edge of the sword, became strong out of weakness, became mighty in war, made armies of strangers give way.
and in this passage again, 'They will never enter into my rest.'"
Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, kept back before Jehovah; his name was Doeg, an Edomite, the mightiest of Saul's runners.
And Saul said, I will give him her, that she may be a snare to him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him. Wherefore Saul said to David, Thou shalt this day be my son-in-law in the one of the two.
And Saul said to the people that were with him: Look, and see who is gone from us. And when they had sought, it was found that Jonathan and his armorbearer were not there.
After he left, his servants returned. When they saw that the doors of the upper room were locked, they thought, "Surely he is relieving himself in the cool inner room."
They ran and got him there. When he stood among the people, he was higher than any of the people from his shoulders and upward.
For surely he is not concerned with angels, but he is concerned with the descendants of Abraham.
Wherefore coming into the world he says, Sacrifice and offering thou willedst not; but thou hast prepared me a body.
even Jehovah, dispossesseth, and He maketh rich, He maketh low, yea, He maketh high.
and Saul seeth the camp of the Philistines, and feareth, and his heart trembleth greatly,
Jotham ran away, and fled, and went to Beer, and lived there, for fear of Abimelech his brother.
When Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled to David to Keilah, he came down with an ephod in his hand.
And Micah consecrated the Levite; and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
And the sons of Dan say unto him, `Let not thy voice be heard with us, lest men bitter in soul fall upon you, and thou hast gathered thy life, and the life of thy household;'
He said, 'Send me away, please, for our clan sacrifice is in the city, and my brother commanded me to be present. So then, if I have found favor in your eyes, please let me them whose away and see my brothers.' Therefore he hast not come to the table of king."
So Delilah said to Samson, "Please tell me what makes your strength so great, and with what can you be tied up to subdue you?"
A man of Benjamin ran from the battle line and came to Shiloh that same day, and his clothes were torn and earth was on his head.
and another company turned the way to Beth-horon; and the other company turned the way to the district that looks over the ravine of Zeboim toward the wilderness.
For if that first covenant had been faultless, then should no place have been sought for in the second coupling.
In the morning, Jonathan went out into the field at the time appointed with David, and a little boy with him.
Then Saul said, "So may God do to me and more, you will certainly die today, Jonathan!"
And Samson called to Jehovah, and said, O Lord Jehovah, remember me, I pray thee, and strengthen me, I pray thee, only this once, O God, that I may take one vengeance upon the Philistines for my two eyes.
And Samuel said, Though you may seem little to yourself, are you not head of the tribes of Israel? for Jehovah with the holy oil made you king over Israel,
The torrent of Cison dragged their carcasses, the torrent of Cadumim, the torrent of Cisoii: tread thou, my soul, upon the strong ones.
And after him Abdon the son of Hillel, a Pirathonite, judged Israel.
For the law made nothing perfect, but the bringing in of a better hope did; by the which we draw nigh unto God.
And Ibzan dieth, and is buried in Beth-Lehem.
And Samuel goeth to Ramath, and Saul hath gone unto his house -- to Gibeah of Saul.
Him therefore I hope to send presently, so soon as I shall see how it will go with me.
Then Jerubbaal, who is Gideon, and all the people that were with him, rose up early, and encamped besides the well of Harod: so that the host of the Midianites were on the north side of them, by the hill of Moreh, in the valley.
which was a symbol for the present time, in which both the gifts and sacrifices that were offered were not able to perfect the worshiper with respect to the conscience,
Now David came to Nob, to Ahimelech the priest. And Ahimelech came trembling to meet David, and he said to him, "Why are you alone and there are no men with you?"
And Judah goeth with Simeon his brother, and they smite the Canaanite inhabiting Zephath, and devote it; and calleth the name of the city Hormah.
To whom did he swear that they wouldn't enter into his rest, but to those who were disobedient?
And the men of the tribe of Judah said to them: Why are you come up against us? They answered: We are come to bind Samson, and to pay him for what he hath done against us.
Then David bought up and went in flight that day for fear of Saul, and went to Achish, the king of Gath.
In that he says New, he hast made a year old; but that which grows old and aged near disappearing.
And they ran and fetched him thence: and when he stood among the people, he was higher than any of the people from his shoulders and upward.
And he said to them: Jehovah is witness against you, and his anointed is witness this day, that you have not found anything in my hand. And they said: He is witness.
Jesus Christ the same yesterday, and to day, and for ever.
Whose voice then moved the earth; but now he promiseth, speaking: Yet once more, and I will move not only the earth, but heaven also.
And the king said to the messengers that stood about him: Return, and kill the priests of Jehovah, for their hand is with David, because they knew that he was fled, and they told it not to me. And the king's servants would not put forth their hands against the priests of Jehovah.
`And now, thou at all better than Balak son of Zippor, king of Moab? did he at all strive with Israel? did he at all fight against them?
The number of those who lapped, putting their hand to their mouth, was three hundred men; but all the rest of the people bowed down on their knees to drink water.
Gideon saw that he was Yahweh's angel; and Gideon said, "Alas, Lord Yahweh! Because I have seen Yahweh's angel face to face!"
See that you refuse him not that speaketh. For if they escaped not who refused him that spoke upon the earth, much more shall not we, that turn away from him that speaketh to us from heaven.
For there was the fear of death in every city, and the hand of God was exceeding heavy. The men also that did not die, were afflicted with the emerods: and the cry of every city went up to heaven.
How much more if the people had eaten of the prey of their enemies, which they found? had there not been made a greater slaughter among the Philistines?
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice; and the woman spoke to Saul, saying, "Why have you deceived me? For you are Saul!"
And it came to pass on the morrow, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, that they found Saul and his three sons fallen in mount Gilboa.
Samuel said, "As your sword hast made women childless, so your mother will be childless among women!" Then Samuel cut Agag in pieces before Yahweh in Gilgal.
But Jonathan had not heard when his father adjured the people: and he put forth the end of the rod, which he had in his hand, and dipt it in a honeycomb: and he carried his hand to his mouth, and his eyes were enlightened.
you subjected all things under his feet. For in subjecting all things, he left nothing that was not subject to him. But now we do not yet see all things subjected to him,
Then Gideon son of Jehoash returned from the battle by way of the ascent of Heres.
As they came, when David returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul, with tambourines, with joy, and with instruments of music.
having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus,
The men of Beth Shemesh said, "Who is able to stand before Yahweh, this holy God? To whom shall he go up from us?"
And do not refuse doing good and generosity, for God is pleased with such sacrifices.
So he said to the men of Penuel, When I come back in peace, I will have this tower broken down.
being named by God a high priest of the order of Melchizedek.
And he put his life in his hand, and slew the Philistine, and Jehovah wrought great salvation for all Israel. Thou sawest it and didst rejoice. Why therefore wilt thou sin against innocent blood by killing David, who is without fault?
And he had thirty sons, who went on thirty young asses therewith; and they had thirty towns in the land of Gilead, which are named Havvoth-Jair unto this day.
Be imitators together of me, brethren, and fix your eyes on those walking thus as you have us for a model;
If I shall say to the boy: Behold, the arrows are on this side of thee, take them up; come thou to me, because, there is peace to thee, and there is no evil, as Jehovah liveth. But if I shall speak thus to the boy: Behold, the arrows are beyond thee: go in peace, for Jehovah hath sent thee away.
to those in Beth-el, and to those in south Ramoth, and to those in Jattir,
And the first smiting which Jonathan and the bearer of his weapons have smitten is of about twenty men, in about half a furrow of a yoke of a field,
Now are you anything better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? Did he ever strive against Israel, or did he ever fight against them?
He came to the men of Succoth, and said, "See Zebah and Zalmunna, concerning whom you taunted me, saying, 'Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna now in your hand, that we should give bread to your men who are weary?'"
And the king said unto the footmen that stood about him, Return, and slay the priests of Jehovah: because their hand also is with David, and because they knew when he fled, and did not show it to me. But the servants of the king would not put forth their hand to fall upon the priests of Jehovah.
And when the servants of David were come to Abigail to Carmel, they spake unto her, saying, David sent us unto thee, to take thee to him to wife.
But six hundred men turned and fled toward the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon, and stayed in the rock of Rimmon four months.
Yahweh's anger burned against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the children of Ammon.
The Philistines assembled themselves together to fight with Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and people as the sand which is on the seashore in multitude. They came up and encamped in Michmash eastward of Beth Aven.
And when they were come in, he saw Eliab, and said: Is the Lord's anointed before him?
Then Abigail made haste, and took two hundred loaves, and two wine-skins, and five sheep ready dressed, and five measures of parched grain, and a hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and laid them on asses.
However the hair of his head began to grow again after he was shaved.
And Jehovah sent Jerubbaal and Bedan and Jephthah and Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies round about, so that ye dwelt in safety.
And they said, Which one of the tribes of Israel did not come up to Mizpah to Jehovah? And it was seen that no one had come from Jabesh-gilead to the meeting.
for in this were the elders testified of;
And when he showed them the entrance into the city, they smote the city with the edge of the sword; but they let go the man and all his family.
And Samuel declareth to him the whole of the words, and hath not hid from him; and he saith, `It Jehovah; that which is good in His eyes He doth.'
For the law, having a shadow of the good to come, not the very image of the things, can never with the same sacrifices year by year, which they offer continually, make perfect those who draw near.
Let my lord the king give ear now to the words of his servant. If it is Jehovah who is moving you against me, let him take an offering: but if it is the children of men, may they are cursed before Jehovah, for driving me out to-day and keeping me from my place in the heritage of Jehovah, saying, Go, be the servant of other gods.
And Jephte passed over to the children of Ammon, to fight against them: and Jehovah delivered them into his hands.
I have sent him, then, the more gladly, so that when you see him again, you may be happy and I may have the less sorrow.
Then they told Saul, saying, "Behold, the peoples are sinning against Yahweh, in that they eat food with the blood." He said, "You have dealt treacherously. Roll a large stone to me today!"
And he speaketh also to the men of Penuel, saying, `In my turning back in peace, I break down this tower.'
They sent therefore and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines, and said, "What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel?" They answered, "Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried over to Gath." They carried the ark of the God of Israel there.
And Yahweh defeated Benjamin in the presence of Israel, and the Israelites destroyed on that day twenty-five thousand one hundred men of Benjamin, all of them sword-wielding.
And Micah saith to him, `Whence comest thou?' and he saith unto him, `A Levite I, of Beth-Lehem-Judah, and I am going to sojourn where I do find.'
And when Saul was come to the city of Amalec, he laid ambushes in the torrent.
When the men of Israel who were on the other side of the valley, and those who were beyond the the Jordan, saw that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they abandoned the cities and fled; and the Philistines came and lived in them.
Not according to the covenant which I made to their fathers, on the day when I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt: because they continued not in my covenant; and I regarded them not, saith Jehovah.
On the next day, Saul put the people in three companies; and they came into the middle of the camp in the morning watch, and struck the Ammonites until the heat of the day. those who remained were scattered, so that no two of them were left together.
Wherever they went out, the hand of Jehovah was against them for evil, as Jehovah had taken his oath it would be; and things became very hard for them.
And they sent messengers to all the tribe of Benjamin to say to them: Why hath so great an abomination been found among you?
and David calleth unto the people, and unto Abner son of Ner, saying, `Dost thou not answer, Abner?' and Abner answereth and saith, `Who thou hast called unto the king?'
When the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul, they reported these things to the people. And all the people lifted up their voices and wept.
And David inquired at Jehovah, saying, Shall I pursue after this troop? shall I overtake them? And he answered him, Pursue: for thou shalt surely overtake them, and without fail recover all.
She put her hand to the tent peg, and her right hand to the workmen's hammer. With the hammer she struck Sisera. She struck through his head. Yea, she pierced and struck through his temples.
that you won't be sluggish, but imitators of those who through faith and patience inherited the promises.
And the olive saith to them, Have I ceased from my fatness, by which they honor gods and men, that I have gone to stagger over the trees?
And Zebee and Salmana fled, and Gedeon pursued and took them, all their host being put in confusion.
but emptied himself, taking a bondman's ordinance concerning them; taking his place in likeness of men;
And David was living in the land of the Philistines for the space of a year and four months.
So Abimelech reigned over Israel for three years.
The Yahweh's Spirit came on him, and he judged Israel; and he went out to war, and Yahweh delivered Cushan Rishathaim king of Mesopotamia into his hand. His hand prevailed against Cushan Rishathaim.
So he said to them, "Yahweh is witness against you, and his anointed one is witness this day, that you have not found anything in my hand." Then they said, "He is witness."
Then they made a line round the tents, every man in his place; and all the army, roused from sleep, came running out, and with loud cries went in flight.
So that even the first agreement was not made without blood.
Jonathan said to David, "Come, and let us go out into the field." They both went out into the field.
and oh that this people were in my hand -- then I turn Abimelech aside;' and he saith to Abimelech, `Increase thy host, and come out.'
See, brethren, lest there be in any one of you a wicked heart of disobedience, in turning away from living God.
All Israel from Dan to Beer-sheba realized that Samuel was faithful as a prophet to Yahweh.
But at the time when Merab, Saul's daughter, should have been given to David, she was given to Adriel the Meholathite as wife.
I saw that you would not deliver us; I risked my own life, and I crossed over to the children of Ammon, and Yahweh gave them into my hand. Why have you come up to me this day to fight against me?"
Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the deed of things not seen.
And Ephraim did not make the Canaanite who were living in Gezer go out; but the Canaanites went on living in Gezer among them.
Let us therefore fear, lest by any means, a promise being left of entering into his rest, any one of you might seem to have failed [of it].
He said to her, "If they tie me tightly with new ropes that have not been used, I will become weak and be like everyone else."
Jonathan gave his weapons to his boy, and said to him, "Go, carry them to the city."
Then do not let my blood be drained out on the earth away from the face of Jehovah; for the king of Israel hast come out to take my life, like one going after birds in the mountains.
And David spake to the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done to the man that killeth this Philistine, and taketh away the reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the armies of the living God?
There was war again. David went out, and fought with the Philistines, and killed them with a great slaughter; and they fled before him.
And he said to Zebah and Zalmunna, "What type were the men whom you killed at Tabor?" And they said, "They were like you; each one of them had the appearance of the sons of the king."
So Saul said to his servants, "Please select a man who plays a stringed instrument well and bring him to me."
and he goeth through the wilderness, and compasseth the land of Edom and the land of Moab, and cometh in at the rising of the sun of the land of Moab, and they encamp beyond of the Arnon, and have not come into the border of Moab, for the Arnon the border of Moab.
And Saul sweareth to her by Jehovah, saying, `Jehovah liveth, punishment doth not meet thee for this thing.'
while it is said, "Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion."
They killed the bull, and brought the child to Eli.
Then Gideon said to God, "In order to see that you will deliver Israel by my hand, just as you have said,
And Samuel said to the people: Come, and let us go to Galgal, and let us renew the kingdom there.
Is it not wheat harvest to-day? I will call upon Jehovah, and he will send thunder and rain; and you shall know and see that you yourselves have done a great evil in the sight of Jehovah, in asking a king over you.
Then David said, "Will the rulers of Keilah deliver me and my men into the hand of Saul?" And Yahweh said, "They will deliver you."
And again, even Jehovah, liveth, the God of Israel, who hath kept me back from doing evil with thee, for if thou hadst hasted, and dost come to meet me, surely there had not been left to Nabal till the light of the morning, of those sitting on the wall.'
If you will fear Yahweh, and serve him, and listen to his voice, and not rebel against the commandment of Yahweh, then both you and also the king who reigns over you are imitators of Yahweh your God.
And Samuel said to Saul: Jehovah sent me to anoint thee king over his People Israel: now therefore hearken thou unto the voice of Jehovah:
and it is so, and he riseth early on the morrow, and presseth the fleece, and wringeth dew out of the fleece -- the fulness of the bowl, of water.
Revile Meroz, saith the angel of Jehovah; Curse, curse the inhabitants thereof; For they came not to the help of Jehovah, to the help of even Jehovah, among the mighty.
When the Philistines took the ark of God, they brought it into the house of Dagon, and set it by Dagon.
`Thus said even Jehovah, of Hosts, I have looked after that which Amalek did to Israel, that which he laid for him in the way in his ascent out of Egypt.
Then the people said to Samuel, "Who is the one who asked, 'Will Saul reign over us?' Give the men to us that we may kill them."
And Achis answering said to David: I know that thou art good in my sight, as an angel of God: but the princes of the Philistines have said: He shall not go up with us to the battle.
Nabal answered David's servants, and said, "Who is David? Who is the son of Jesse? There are many servants who break away from their masters these days.
And the men of Israel going out of Masphath pursued after the Philistines, and made slaughter of them till they came under Bethchar.
Now David was the son of that Ephrathite of Beth-lehem-judah named Jesse, who had eight sons; and he was an old man in Saul's day, and far on in years.
And Adoni-Bezek fleeth, and they pursue after him, and seize him, and cut off his thumb and his great toes,
And when the men of Israel saw that they were straitened, (for the people were distressed,) they hid themselves in caves, and in the thickets, and in rocks, and in dens, and in pits.
And all the masters of the tower of Shechem hear, and go in unto the high place of the house of god Berith,
And Caleb said, He that smites Kirjath-sepher and takes it, to him will I give Achsah my daughter as wife.
And David said unto Jonathan, Behold, to-morrow is the new moon, and I should not fail to sit with the king at bread: but let me go, that I may hide myself in the field unto the third day at even.
And why do ye harden your heart as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their heart? do they not -- when He hath rolled Himself upon them -- send them away, and they go?
each of you not just looking to his own things, but each of you also to the things of others.
Samuel answered Saul, and said, "I am seer. Go up before me to the high place, for you are to eat with me today. In the morning I will let you go, and will tell you all that is in your heart.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
Naphtali did not drive out the inhabitants of Beth Shemesh or Beth-anath, but lived in the midst of the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land; the inhabitants of Beth Shemesh and Beth-anath became forced labor for them.
And David said to Abishai, Destroy him not: for who can stretch forth his hand against the Lord's anointed, and be guiltless?
And then in the morning when the wine had gone out of Nabal, his wife told him these words. Then his heart died within him, and he became like a stone.
and all the men of Israel, who are hiding themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim, have heard that the Philistines have fled, and they pursue -- even they -- after them in battle.
These are the nations which Jehovah left, that by them he might instruct Israel, and all that had not known the Wars of Chanaanites:
And keep hold on him doth his father-in-law, father of the young woman, and he abideth with him three days, and they eat and drink, and lodge there.
For he was yet in the loins of his father, when Melchisedec met him.
So Samuel returned after Saul, and Saul worshiped Yahweh.
And they rose up in the morning early, and worshipped before Jehovah, and returned, and came to their house to Ramah: and Elkanah knew Hannah his wife; and Jehovah remembered her.
And Samson saith of them, `I am more innocent this time than the Philistines, though I am doing with them evil.'
Now if there were perfection through the Levitical priesthood (for under it the people have received the law), what further need was there for another priest to arise after the order of Melchizedek, and not be called after the order of Aaron?
Neither is there any creature invisible in his sight; but all things are naked and open to his eyes, to whom our speech is.
But Jonathan had not heard when his father adjured the people; and he put forth the end of his staff which was in his hand, and dipped it in the honeycomb, and put his hand to his mouth, and his eyes became bright.
Therefore they asked of Yahweh further, "Is there yet a man to come here?" Yahweh answered, "Behold, he hast hidden himself among the baggage."
And they said one to another, Who hast done this thing? And when they learned and asked, they said, Gideon the son of Joash hast done this thing.
For, let this mind be in you that also in Christ Jesus,
David took all the flocks and the herds, which they drove before those other livestock, and said, "This is David's plunder."
Then Saul and his men went to seek him: and it was told David, and straightway he went down to the rock, and abode in the wilderness of Maon; and when Saul had heard of it he pursued after David in the wilderness of Maon.
Now this man went up from his village every year to give worship and to make offerings to Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, the priests of Jehovah, were there.
And the princes of Galaad said one to another: Whosoever of us shall first begin to fight against the children of Ammon, he shall be the leader of the people of Galaad.
And let us consider one another, to provoke unto love and to good works;
receive him, therefore, in Jehovah, with all joy, and hold such in honor,
Thus, on that day he was called Jerub-Baal, which means, "Let Baal contend against him," because he had brought down his altar.
So Gaal went out in the sight of the people of Shechem, and fought against Abimelech,
Then Manoah treated Yahweh, and said, "Oh, Lord, please let the man of God whom you sent come again to us, and teach us what we should do to the child who shall be born."
And Jephthah sendeth messengers unto the king of the Bene-Ammon, saying, `What -- to me and to thee, that thou hast come in unto me, to fight in my land.'
And the number of the days that David hath dwelt in the field of the Philistines days and four months;
And the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah, and the coffer that was with it, wherein the jewels of gold were, and put them on the great stone; and the men of Beth-shemesh offered burnt-offerings and sacrificed sacrifices the same day unto Jehovah.
It had, indeed, then (even the first tabernacle) ordinances of service, also a worldly sanctuary,
And he set the torches on fire, and let run into the standing grain of the Philistines, and burnt up both the shocks, and also the standing grain, and the olive gardens.
Then Jael Heber's wife took a nail of the tent, and took an hammer in her hand, and went softly unto him, and smote the nail into his temples, and fastened it into the ground; for he was fast asleep and weary. So he died.
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel to Mizpah, and I will pray even Jehovah, for you.
More than that, I even consider all things to be loss because of the surpassing greatness of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for the sake of whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and consider them dung, in order that I may gain Christ
Gilead's wife bore him sons. When his wife's sons grew up, they drove Jephthah out, and said to him, "You will not inherit in our father's house, for you are the son of another woman."
And Aod put forth his left hand, and took the dagger from his right thigh, and thrust it into his belly,
Then Gideon made an altar there to Jehovah, and gave it the name Yahweh-shalom; to this day it is in Ophrah of the Abiezrites.
And they were afflicted, and grievously oppressed for eighteen years, all they that dwelt beyond the the Jordan in the land of the Amorrhite, who is in Galaad:
And the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight with Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and people as the sand which is on the sea-shore in multitude; and they came up, and encamped in Michmash eastward from Beth-aven.
And on the way he came to the place where sheep were kept, where there was a hollow in the rock; and Saul went in for a private purpose. Now David and his men were in the deepest part of the hollow.
This is the thing that you shall do: you shall utterly destroy every male, and every woman who hast lain with a man."
Of whom we have much to say, and hard to be interpreted in speaking [of it], since ye are become dull in hearing.
And he said to his mother, The eleven hundred shekels of silver which were taken from you, about which you took an oath and said in my hearing, I have given this silver to Jehovah from my hand for myself, to make a pictured image and a metal image; see, I have the silver, for I took it: so now I will give it back to you. And his mother said, May the blessing of Jehovah be on my son.
By faith the walls of Jericho came down, after they had been circled for seven days.
And David said, "O Yahweh, the God of Israel, your servant hast clearly heard that Saul is seeking to come to Keilah to destroy the city because of me.
His father went down to the woman; and Samson made a feast there; for so the young men used to do.
And he did great things, and mastered both of the Amalekites, and made Israel safe from the hands of their attackers.
And Jonathan answered Saul his father, and said to him, Why should he be put to death? what hast he done?
Hear, O kings! Give ear, O princes! I will sing to Yahweh; I will sing praise to Yahweh, the God of Israel.
He will take a tenth of your seed and your vineyards and give it to his high officials and to his servants.
(Beforetime in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, thus he spake, Come, and let us go to the seer: for he that is now called a prophet was beforetime called a Seer.)
And when the people were come down to the waters, Jehovah said to Gedeon: They that shall lap the water with their tongues, as dogs are wont to lap, thou shalt set apart by themselves: but they that shall drink to cast us down their knees, shall be on the other side.
And Gaal the son of Obed went out, and stood in the entrance of the gate of the city. And Abimelech rose up, and all his army with him from the places of the ambushes.
Abiathar told David that Saul had killed the priests of Yahweh.
And Eli saith unto her, `Until when are thou drunken? turn aside thy wine from thee.'
And the Midianites and the Amalekite and all the children of the east lay along in the valley like locusts for multitude; and their camels were without number, as the sand by the sea side for multitude.
These do it from love, conscious that I am responsible for the cause of the good news:
and all chastening for the present, indeed, doth not seem to be of joy, but of sorrow, yet afterward the peaceable fruit of righteousness to those exercised through it -- it doth yield.
And were now at a distance from the house of Michas, the men that dwelt in the houses of Michas gathering together followed them,
Samuel came no more to see Saul until the day of his death; for Samuel mourned for Saul: and Yahweh grieved that he had made Saul king over Israel.
How shall we do for wives for them that remain, seeing we have sworn by Jehovah that we will not give them of our daughters to women?
In bitter hate I was cruel to the church; I kept all the righteousness of the law to the last detail.
But his wife said to him, "If Yahweh wanted to kill us he would not have taken from our hand the burnt-offering and the grain thereof, or shown us all these things, or now announced to us things such as these."
And the children of Dan said to him, Let not thy voice be heard among us, lest men of exasperated spirit run upon you, and thou lose thy life and the lives of thy household.
And Jehovah said to Samuel: Behold, I do a thing in Israel: and whosoever shall hear it, both his ears shall tingle.
Othniel son of Kenaz, the younger brother of Caleb, captured it, and he gave to him Acsah his daughter as a wife.
And when David and his men came to the village, they saw that it had been burned down, and their wives and their sons and daughters had been made prisoners.
For people swear by what is greater than themselves, and the oath for confirmation is the end of all reason for them.
with teachings manifold and strange be not carried about, for [it is] good that by grace the heart hath been confirmed, not with meats, in which they who were traded were not profited;
And now rise up early in the morning with thy master's servants that are come with thee; and rise ye early in the morning, and when ye have daylight, depart.
And it came to pass, when the angel of Jehovah spake these words unto all the children of Israel, that the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
But only the high priest went into the second, once a year, not without making an offering of blood for himself and for the errors of the people;
So I have made an oath to the family of Eli that no oblation of food or of meal which they may make will ever take away the sin of his family.
And Saul said to David: Behold, my elder daughter Merob, her will I give thee to wife: only be a mighty man, and fight the battles of Jehovah. Now Saul said within himself: Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hands of the Philistines be upon him.
In thy going to-day from me -- then thou hast found two men by the grave of Rachel, in the border of Benjamin, at Zelzah, and they have said unto thee, The asses have been found which thou hast gone to seek; and lo, thy father hath left the matter of the asses, and hath were made sorry for you, saying, What do I do for my son?
And he said unto them, Look on me, and do likewise: and, behold, when I come to the outside of the camp, it shall be that, as I do, so shall ye do.
choosing instead to be mistreated with the people of God rather than to experience the transitory enjoyment of sin,
seeing he was longing after you all, and in heaviness, because ye heard that he ailed,
Then Saul became angry at Jonathan and said to him, "You son of a perverse, rebellious woman! Do I not know that you have chosen the son of Jesse to your shame and to the shame of your mother's nakedness?
Then David said to him, "To whom do you belong, and from where are you? The young man said, "I am an Egyptian young man, a servant of an Amalekite man, but my master abandoned me because I became ill three days ago.
They encamped against them, and destroyed the increase of the earth, until you come to Gaza. They left no sustenance in Israel, and no sheep, ox, or donkey.
for he was looking for the city having the foundations, whose artificer and constructor God.
Look, all you Israelites! Make your decision and counsel here."
And Delilah saith unto Samson, `Lo, thou hast played upon me, and speakest unto me lies; now, Declare, I pray thee, to me, wherewith thou art bound.'
For Cis was the father of Saul, and Ner the father of Abner, was son of Abiel.
And most of the brothers in Jehovah, taking heart because of my fetters, are all the stronger to give the word of God without fear.
and the proof of him ye know, that as a child a father, with me he did serve in regard to the good news;
Now David went back and forth from Saul to feed his father's sheep at Beth-lehem.
And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together to Mizpeh, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. And when the children of Israel heard it, they were afraid of the Philistines.
There is no one holy like Yahweh, for there is no one besides you, and there is no rock like our God.
And Micah consecrated the Levite; and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
And the children of Israel repented them for Benjamin their brother, and said, To-day is one tribe extirpated from Israel.
And Gideon built there an altar to Jehovah, and called it Jehovah-shalom. To this day it is yet in Ophrah of the Abi-ezrites.
and I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that oppressed you, and drove them out from before you, and gave you their land,
And as soon as David had ended speaking these words to Saul, Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
Why do ye kick at My sacrifice, and at Mine offering which I commanded My habitation, and dost honor thy sons above Me, to make yourselves fat from the first part of every oblation of Israel, of My people?
in order that the generations of Israel would know war, to teach those who had not experienced it before):
For thy seat will be empty till after to-morrow. So thou shalt go down quickly, and come to the place, where thou must be hid on the day when it is lawful to work, and thou shalt remain besides the stone, which is called Ezel.
Her rival also afflicted her, and troubled her exceedingly, insomuch that she upbraided her, that Jehovah had shut up her womb;
And the men of the city say to him on the seventh day, before the sun goeth in: -- `What sweeter than honey? And what stronger than a lion?' And he saith to them: `Unless ye had ploughed with my heifer; Ye had not found out my riddle.'
The name of his first son was Joel and the name of his second Abijah: they were judges in Beer-sheba.
But he, because of his continuing for ever, hast the priesthood unchangeable.
Go and call upon the gods which you have chosen: let them deliver you in the time of distress.
Because to you it hast been given in the cause of Christ not only to have faith in him, but to undergo pain on his account;
Look, as your life was precious in my eyes this day, may my life be great in the eyes of Yahweh, and may he save me from all trouble."
Now Samuel did not yet know Jehovah, neither had the word of Jehovah been revealed to him.
And Israel served Eglon king of Moab eighteen years.
Only that the generations of the children of Israel might know, to teach them war, at the least such as before knew nothing thereof;
And Achish trusted David, saying, "He hast made himself utterly hated among his people in Israel, and he will be my servant forever."
Then the angel of Jehovah put out the stick which was in his hand, touching the food and the cakes with the end of it; and a flame came up out of the rock, burning up the food and the cakes: and the angel of Jehovah was seen no longer.
And it was right for this man to have more honor than Moses, even as the builder of a house hast more honor than the house.
And may the sin of your servant have forgiveness: for Jehovah will certainly make your family strong, because my lord is fighting in the Lord's war; and no evil will be seen in you all your days.
But Samson's wife was given to his companion who had been his friend.
I will draw out Sisera, the commander of Jabin's army, with his chariots and troops, to the wadi of Kishon, and I will give him into your hand.'"
"But the fig-tree said to them, 'Should I leave my sweetness, and my good fruit, and go to wave back and forth over the trees?'
The mountains quaked Yahweh's presence, even Sinai at the presence of Yahweh, the God of Israel.
And the men of Israel went out of Mizpeh, and pursued the Philistines, and smote them, until they came under Bethcar.
And the sons of Benjamin number themselves on that day; out of the cities twenty and six thousand men drawing sword, apart from the inhabitants of Gibeah, numbered themselves, seven hundred chosen men;
And Saul said to his servants: Get me then some man that can play well, and bring him to me.
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, when Ehud was dead.
And the man of thine I shall not cut off from mine altar, shall be to cause thine eyes to fail and to grieve thy soul; and all the increase of thy house shall die in their vigour.
Six hundred men from the clan of the Danites from Zorah and Eshtaol, armed with weapons of war, set out from there.
"In the days of Shamgar the son of Anath, in the days of Jael, the highways were unoccupied. The travelers walked through byways.
By faith Moses, when he was born, was hidden for three months by his parents, because they saw the child was handsome, and they were not afraid of the edict of the king.
Then Saul cast the spear at him to smite him; and Jonathan knew that it was determined by his father to put David to death.
David said to Saul, "Let no man's heart fail because of him. Your servant will go and fight with this Philistine."
And now, is it true, as they have said to me, that Saul is coming? O Jehovah, the God of Israel, give ear to your servant, and say if these things are so. And Jehovah said, He is coming down.
And Jehovah will reward every one according to his righteousness, and his faithfulness; for Jehovah hath delivered thee this day into my hand, and I would not put forth my hand against the Lord's anointed.
`And the trees say to the vine, Come thou, reign over us.
And Saul heard that David was seen, and the men that were with him. Now Whilst Saul abode in Gabaa, and was in the wood, which is by Rama, having his spear in his hand, and all his servants were standing about him,
She fell at his feet, and said, "On me, my lord, on me be the blame! Please let your servant speak in your ears. Hear the words of your servant.
The king said, "Inquire whose son the young man is!"
who, being in the form of God, thought not robbery to be equal to God,
And Sisara said to her: Stand before the door of the tent, and when any shall come and inquire of thee, speaking: Is there any man here? thou shalt say: There is none.
And Saul, having news of this, sent other men, who in the same way became like prophets. And a third time Saul sent men, and they like the others became like prophets.
It was so, that, when he had turned his back to go from Samuel, God gave him another heart; and all those signs happened that day.
having been filled with the fruit of righteousness which comes through Jesus Christ to the glory and praise of God.
And he said to him, God forbid; thou shalt not die: behold, my father will do nothing either great or small, and not apprise me; and why should my father hide this thing from me? it is not so.
Now there was a man of Benjamin, whose name was Kish, the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Becorath, the son of Aphiah, the son of the Benjamite, a mighty man of valor.
And if I live, thou shalt show me the kindness of Jehovah: but if I die,
For here have we no continuing city, but we seek one to come.
Accounting that God is able to raise up even from the dead. Whereupon also he received him for a parable.
And the king said to her, Have no fear: what do you see? And the woman said to Saul, I see a god coming up out of the earth.
And his servant-wife was angry with him, and went away from him to her father's house at Beth-lehem-judah, and was there for four months.
And Samuel taketh the horn of oil, and anointeth him in the midst of his brethren, and prosper over David doth the Spirit of Jehovah from that day and onwards; and Samuel riseth and goeth to Ramath.
When the spirit from God was on Saul, David took the harp and played with his hand; so Saul was refreshed, and was well, and the evil spirit departed from him.
And Samson goeth hunting three hundred foxes, and taketh torches, and turneth tail unto tail, and putteth a flaming between the two tails, in the midst,
And Abigail hasteth, and taketh two hundred loaves, and two wine-skins, and five sheep, prepared, and five measures of roasted grain, and a hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred clusters of figs, and setteth on the asses.
When the Philistine looked and saw David, he despised him, for he was only a boy and ruddy with a handsome appearance.
And so, by persevering, he obtained promise.
And Abigail came to Nabal; and, behold, he held a feast in his house, like the feast of a king; and Nabal's heart was merry within him, for he was very drunken; wherefore she told him nothing, less or more, until the morning light.
And now, take heed, I pray thee, and do not drink wine, and strong drink, and do not eat any unclean thing,
There is indeed a setting aside of the former commandment, because of the weakness and unprofitableness thereof:
And the priest answered David, speaking: I have no common bread at hand, but only holy bread, if the young men be clean; especially from women?
And the men of Beth-Shemesh say, `Who is able to stand before Jehovah, this holy God? and unto whom doth He go up from us?'
And they said, "What is the guilt oblation that we should return to him?" They said, "The number of the rulers of the Philistines is five. Therefore send five gold tumors and five gold mice, because one plague was on all of you and all your rulers.
For I know that this shall fall out to me for salvation, through your supplication, and the supply of the Spirit of Christ Jesus,
And you shall say: Peace be to my brethren, and to thee, and peace to thy house, and peace to all that thou hast.
and they cry unto Jehovah, and say, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and serve the Baalim, and Ashtaroth, and now, deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we serve Thee.
And the peace of God, which is Deeper than all knowledge, will keep your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus.
And a messenger hath come in unto Saul, saying, `Haste, and come, for the Philistines have push against the land.'
and Jesse said unto David his son, Take now for thy brethren an ephah of this parched grain, and these ten loaves, and run to the camp of thy brethren;
And every time Achish said, Where have you been fighting today? David said, Against the South of Judah and the South of the Jerahmeelites and the South of the Kenites.
nothing in rivalry or vain-glory, but in lowliness of mind one another laying more excellent than yourselves --
And Saul taketh him on that day, and hath not permitted him to turn back to the house of his father.
When Gideon came, a man was recounting a dream to his friend, and he said, "Behold, I had a dream; a round loaf of barley bread was tumbling into the camp of Midian, and it came up to the tent, it struck it, and it fell and turned it upside down so that the tent fell."
Then Saul's uncle said to him and to his servant, "Where did you go?" And he said, "To search for the female donkeys; and when we saw none, we went to Samuel."
So the priest gave him the holy bread, for there was no bread there except the bread of the Presence, which was removed from before Yahweh, in order to set hot bread there on the day when it was taken away.
And Caleb said, "Whoever attacks Kiriath Sepher and captures it, I will give to him Acsah my daughter as a wife."
The princes of the Philistines had gathered to sacrifice a great sacrifice to Dagon their god and to rejoice. And they said, "Our god hast given Samson our enemy into our hand."
And Saul took him that day, and would not let him return to his father's house.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto him, and said unto him, Jehovah is with thee, thou mighty man of valor.
And the messenger of Jehovah cometh and sitteth under the oak which in Ophrah, which to Joash the Abi-Ezrite, and Gideon his son is off beating out wheat in the wine-press, to remove from the presence of Midian,
The Levite agreed to stay with the man; and the young man became as one of his sons.
For if the word spoken through angels was stedfast, and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense of reward;
Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are in Philippi, with overseers and ministrants;
And divers washings, and justices of the flesh laid on them until the time of correction.
But it came to pass at the time when Merab Saul's daughter should have been given to David, that she was given unto Adriel the Meholathite to wife.
And Samuel died; and all Israel were gathered together, and lamented him, and buried him in his house at Ramah. And David arose, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
Jephthah gathered all the men of Gilead, and he made war with Ephraim; and the men of Gilead defeated Ephraim because they said, "You are fugitives of Ephraim, you Gileadites, in the midst of Ephraim and Manasseh."
And they went up into the city. And when they were walking in the midst of the city, behold Samuel was coming out over against them, to go up to the high place.
And the men of Beth-shemesh said, Who is able to stand before Jehovah, this holy God? and to whom shall he go up from us?
And if to live in the flesh, this is to me the fruit of labor, and what I shall choose I know not.
which an image for the present time, according to which both gifts and sacrifices, unable to perfect as to conscience him that worshipped, are oblation,
So the army sent to Shiloh and brought from there the ark of the covenant of Yahweh of hosts who sits between the cherubim. and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were there with the ark of the covenant of God.
Judah went with Simeon his brother, and they struck the Canaanite who inhabited Zephath, and utterly destroyed it. The name of the city was called Hormah.
And Samuel said to all Israel, You see that I have given ear to everything you said to me, and have made a king over you.
But Ehud made him a dagger which had two edges, of a cubit length; and he did gird it under his raiment upon his right thigh.
And he took all the flocks and the herds, and made them go before him: and they said: This is the prey of David.
for this youth I prayed, and Jehovah doth give to me my petition which I asked of Him;
And I will keep no more memory of their sins and of their evil-doings.
Yahweh's Spirit began to move him in Mahaneh Dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.
And he saith, `My brethren -- sons of my mother -- they; Jehovah liveth, if ye had kept them alive -- I had not slain you.'
Then he said to all Israel, "You be on one side, and I and Jonathan my son will be on the other side." The people said to Saul, "Do what seems good to you."
And the king said: Inquire thou, whose son this man is.
And Jonathan answering Saul his father, said: Why shall he die: what hath he done?
For the law maketh men high priests who have infirmity; But the word of oath, which was since the law, maketh the Son, who is consecrated for evermore.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
And in this place again: If they shall enter into my rest.
Therefore they turn their backs before the men of Israel unto the way of the wilderness; but the battle overtook them; and them that came out of the cities they destroyed in the midst of them.
They are going up in the ascent of the city, and have found young women going out to draw water, and say to them, `Is the seer in this ?'
And David saith unto Achish, `Therefore -- thou dost know that which thy servant dost do.' And Achish saith unto David, `Therefore -- keeper of my head I do appoint thee all the days.'
and Midian and Amalek, and all the sons of the east are lying in the valley, as the locust for multitude, and of their camels there is no number, as sand which on the sea-shore for multitude.
And he will take your fields, and your vineyards, and your best oliveyards, and give them to his servants.
Then David put the question to Jehovah again, and Jehovah answering said, Up! go down to Keilah; for I will give the Philistines into your hands.
For he did not make the angels rulers over the world to come, of which I am writing.
And Samuel speaketh all the words of Jehovah unto the people who are asking from him a king,
When he says, A new agreement, he hast made the first agreement old. But anything which is getting old and past use will not be seen much longer.
And being angry I made an oath, saying, They may not come into my rest.
Though I might also have confidence in the flesh. If any other man thinketh that he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh, I more;
It is no longer my pleasure for Saul to be king; for he is turned back from going in my ways, and hast not done my orders. And Samuel was very sad, crying to Jehovah in prayer all night.
And it came to pass, when David had made an end of speaking these words unto Saul, that Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
And Zebah and Zalmunna went in flight; and he went after them, and took the two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna, and put all the army to the curse.
And as Samuel was offering up the burnt-offering, the Philistines advanced to battle against Israel. And Jehovah thundered with a great thunder on that day upon the Philistines, and discomfited them; and they were routed before Israel.
fixing our eyes on Jesus, the originator and perfecter of faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, disregarding the shame, and hast sat down at the right hand of the throne of God.
And so he used to do year after year; whenever she went up to the house of Yahweh, she would provoke her so that she would weep and would not eat.
Then you must say to him, 'Long life to you, and may it go well with you, with your house, and with all that is yours.
Then the woman said, "Whom shall I bring up to you?" He said, "Bring Samuel up for me."
I make request to Euodias and Syntyche to be of the same mind in the Lord.
And when the children of Israel went out the next day to fight against the children of Benjamin,
And crushing Benjamin down, they went after them, driving them from Nohah as far as the east side of Gibeah.
So then, my lord, as Yahweh lives and as your soul lives, since Yahweh restrained you from bloodguilt by taking matters into your own hand, so then, may your enemies be like Nabal, even those who seek to do my lord harm.
And when Saul saw David going out against the Philistine, he said to Abner, the captain of the army, Abner, whose son is this young man? And Abner said, On your life, O king, I have no idea.
And he went and caught three hundred foxes, and coupled them tail to tail, and fastened torches between the tails.
Afterward, David's heart smote him, because he had cut off Saul's skirt.
Yahweh looked at him, and said, "Go in this your might, and save Israel from the hand of Midian. Haven't I sent you?"
And he came to Soccoth and said to them: Behold, Zebee and Salmana, concerning whom you upbraided me, speaking: Peradventure the hands of Zebee and Salmana, are in thy hands, and therefore thou demandest that we should give bread to the men that are weary and faint.
And the Ziphites came unto Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself in the hill of Hachilah, which is before Jeshimon?
And the king of the children of Ammon answered unto the messengers of Jephthah, Because Israel took away my land, when they came up out of Egypt, from the Arnon even unto the Jabbok, and unto the Jordan: now therefore restore those lands again peaceably.
A man of Benjamin ran out of the army, and came to Shiloh the same day, with his clothes torn, and with mire on his head.
And David went out to whatsoever business Saul sent him, and he behaved himself prudently: and Saul set him over the soldiers, and he was acceptable in the eyes of all the people, and especially in the eyes of Saul's servants.
Micah said to him, "Dwell with me, and be to me a father and a priest, and I will give you ten pieces of silver per year, a suit of clothing, and your food." So the Levite went in.
And Abimelech the son of Jerobaal went to Sichem to his mother's brethren and spoke to them, and to all the kindred of his mother's father, speaking:
Deliver up the men of Gabaa, that have committed this heinous crime, that they may die, and the evil may be taken away out of Israel. But they would not hearken to the proposition of their brethren the children of Israel:
And Gideon saith unto God, `If Thou art Saviour of Israel by my hand, as Thou hast spoken,
And now, hearken to their voice; only, surely thou dost certainly protest to them, and hast declared to them the custom of the king who doth reign over them.'
After him Elon the Zebulunite judged Israel, and he judged Israel ten years.
and the handle also went in after the blade; and the fat closed on the shoulder-blade, for he didn't draw the sword out of his body; and it came out behind.
So get up early in the morning, with the servants of your lord who are with you, and go to the place I have given you, and have no evil design in your heart, for you are good in my eyes; but when there is light enough in the morning, go away.
I know both how to be abased and I know how to abound; In everything and in all things I am initiated both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer privation.
So Saul disguised himself and put on other garments, and he went with two of his men. And they came to the woman by night and he said, "Please consult a spirit for me through the ritual pit, and bring up for me the one whom I tell you."
And the war is severe against the Philistines all the days of Saul; when Saul hath seen any mighty man, and any son of valor, then he doth gather him unto himself.
And Abimelech with his band made a rush, and took up their position at the doorway into the town; and the other two bands made a rush on all those who were in the fields, and mastered both of them.
And Saul is called, and all the people who with him, and they come in unto the battle, and, lo, the sword of each hath been against his neighbor -- a very great destruction.
And he said, "What is the message that he spoke to you? Please do not conceal it from me. May God punish you severely if you conceal anything from me of all the words that he told you."
And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in full knowledge and all intelligence,
Your chiefs, Issachar, were with Deborah; and Naphtali was true to Barak; into the valley they went rushing out at his feet. In Reuben there were divisions, and great searchings of heart.
and to those in Rachal, and to those in the cities of the Jerahmeelites, and to those in the cities of the Kenite,
Any one that hast disregarded Moses' law dies without mercy on [the testimony of] two or three witnesses:
and the Philistines take the ark of God and bring it into the house of Dagon, and set it near Dagon.
Let marriage be held in honor among all, and let the bed be undefiled; but God will judge the sexually immoral and adulterers.
When Saul saw David go out against the Philistine, he said to Abner, the captain of the army, "Abner, whose son is this youth?" Abner said, "As your soul lives, O king, I can't tell."
And he consulted Jehovah for him, and gave him victuals, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine.
For they thought to cut them off, as aforetime. But they artfully feigning a flight, designed to draw them away from the city, and by their seeming to flee to bring them to the highways aforesaid.
When the Philistine looked around, and saw David, he disdained him; for he was but a youth, and ruddy, and had a good looking face.
Barak said to her, "If you will go with me, then I will go; but if you will not go with me, I will not go."
And it came to pass, when the Philistine arose, and came, and drew nigh to meet David, that David hastened, and ran toward the army to meet the Philistine.
if he be able to fight with me, and have smitten me, then we have been to you for servants; and if I am able for him, and have smitten him, then ye have been to us for servants, and have served us.'
Then Zebah and Zalmunna said, Rise thou, and fall upon us; for as the man is, so is his strength. And Gideon arose, and slew Zebah and Zalmunna, and took away the ornaments that were on their camels' necks.
By faith they passed through the Red Sea as through dry land; of which the Egyptians having made proof were swallowed up.
By faith Rahab the harlot perished not with the unbelieving, receiving the spies with peace.
Then Samuel sent for the people to come together before Jehovah at Mizpah,
Now I know God will do me good, since I have a priest of the race of the Levites.
that by them I may test Israel, to see if they will keep the Yahweh's way to walk therein, as their fathers kept it, or not."
And David said, What have I done now? was it not only a word?
Let my lord give no attention to Nabal, that good-for-nothing: for as his name is, so is he, a man without sense: but I, your servant, did not see the young men whom my lord sent.
And the men of Ephraim were called together, and passed over northwards, and said to Jephthah, Why didst thou pass over to fight against the children of Ammon, and didst not call us to go with thee? We will burn thy house upon thee with fire.
And Ehud came to him; now he was sitting in the cool upper-chamber, which was for him alone. And Ehud said, I have a word from God unto thee. And he arose from the seat.
Then Samuel taking Saul and his servant, brought them into the parlour, and gave them a place at the head of them that were invited. For there were about thirty men.
All the limit of the Amorites was theirs, from the the Arnon as far as the Jabbok and from the waste land even to the Jordan.
But if ye will not hearken to the voice of Jehovah, and if ye rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then will the hand of Jehovah be against you, as against your fathers.
And there went out a champion from the camp of the Philistines, named Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span.
And Samson goeth down to Timnah, and seeth a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines,
Likewise, the house of Joseph went up against Beth-el, and Yahweh was with them.
Then Saul and all the troops who were with him were assembled on command and came up to the battle, and look! Each Philistine's sword was against his neighbor: and there was a very great confusion.
for we have not here a abiding city, but the coming one we seek;
Wherefore then didst thou not obey the voice of Jehovah, but didst fly upon the spoil, and didst evil in the sight of Jehovah?
That he told her all his heart, and said unto her, There hath not come a razor upon my head; for I have been a Nazirite unto God from my mother's womb; if I be shaven, then my strength will go from me, and I shall become weak, and be like any other man.
And he passed through the hill-country of Ephraim, and passed through the land of Shalisha, but they found them not: then they passed through the land of Shalim, and there they were not: and he passed through the land of the Benjamites, but they found them not.
Pray for us: for we persuade ourselves that we have a good conscience in all things desirous to walk rightly.
Then said David to Jonathan, Who shall tell me? or what if thy father answer thee roughly?
"Most blessed of women is Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite; most blessed is she of women among tent dwellers.
Because of the voice of those who divide [the spoil] in the midst of the places of drawing water; There they rehearse the righteous acts of Jehovah, His righteous acts toward his villages in Israel. Then the people of Jehovah went down to the gates.
And he took thereof in his hands, and went on eating; and came to his father and mother, and he gave them, and they did eat: but he told not them that he had taken the honey out of the carcass of the lion.
And again, Israel did evil in the sight of Yahweh, and Yahweh gave them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
The raiders came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies: one company turned to the way that leads to Ophrah, to the land of Shual;
And Jephthah vowed a vow unto Jehovah, and said, If thou wilt without fail give the children of Ammon into my hand,
But the people would not hear the voice of Samuel, and they said: Nay: but there shall be a king over us.
And Achish answered and said to David, "I know that you are good in my eyes, like an angel of God! However, the commanders of the Philistines have said, 'He must not go up with us into the battle.'
And departing from thence he went to the inhabitants of Dabir, the ancient name of which was Cariath-Sepher, that is, the city of letters.
By so much is it a better agreement which we have through Jesus.
And so then, please let my lord the king listen to the words of his servant: If Yahweh hast incited you against me, may he delight in an iniquity; but if it is mortals, may they be devoted before Yahweh, for they have driven me away to-day from sharing in the inheritance of Yahweh, saying, 'Go, serve other gods!'
And there riseth after Abimelech, to save Israel, Tola son of Puah, son of Dodo, a man of Issachar, and he is dwelling in Shamir, in the hill-country of Ephraim,
Achish said, "Against whom have you made a raid today?" David said, "Against the South of Judah, against the South of the Jerahmeelites, and against the South of the Kenites."
And they laid the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the coffer with the golden mice and the images of their sores.
And she answered him; My father, if thou hast opened thy mouth to Jehovah, do unto me whatsoever thou hast promised, since the victory hath been granted to thee, and avenge of thy enemies.
He sent, and brought him in. Now he was ruddy, with a handsome face and good appearance. Yahweh said, "Arise! Anoint him, for this is he."
And they find out of the inhabitants of Jabesh-Gilead four hundred young women, virgins, who have not known man by lying of a male, and they bring them in unto the camp at Shiloh, which in the land of Canaan.
Jephte also said to them: If you are come to me sincerely, that I should fight for you against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah will deliver them into my band, shall I be your prince?
And David came to Saul, and stood before him; and he loved him greatly; and he became his armour-bearer.
So let all thy enemies perish, O Jehovah: but let them that love thee shine, as the sun shineth in his rising.
so I sware in My anger, If they shall enter into My rest -- !')
And so, as your life was dear to me today, may my life be dear to Jehovah, and may he make me free from all my troubles.
And the Philistines are humbled, and have not added any more to come into the border of Israel, and the hand of Jehovah is on the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And it came to pass when the children of Israel cried to even Jehovah, because of Midian,
And he said to him, Behold now, a man of God is in this city, and the man is held in honor; all that he says comes surely to pass. Let us now go thither: perhaps he will show us the way that we should go.
Then Gideon said to God, Do not be moved to wrath against me if I say only this: let me make one more test with the wool; let the wool now be dry, while the earth is covered with dew.
But a certain fearful expectation of justice and a wrath of fire that is about to consume the adversaries.
And the woman came to Saul and saw that he was in great trouble, and said to him, See now, your servant hast given ear to your words, and I have put my life in danger by doing what you said.
When the children of Israel cried to Yahweh because of Midian,
So Samuel took Saul and his servant and brought them to a room in the building and gave them a place at the head of the invited guests. There were about thirty men.
And Eliab his elder brother heard when he spake unto the men; and Eliab's anger was kindled against David, and he said, Why camest thou down hither? and with whom hast thou left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride, and the naughtiness of thy heart; for thou art come down that thou mightest see the battle.
Then the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah and the chest in which were the gold images, and put them on the great stone; and the men of Beth-shemesh made burned offerings and gave worship that day before Jehovah.
But the olive-tree said unto them, Should I leave my fatness, wherewith by me they honor God and man, and go to be promoted over the trees?
And when David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, "Blessed is Yahweh, who hast pleaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and hast kept back his servant from evil. Yahweh hast returned the evildoing of Nabal on his own head." David sent and spoke concerning Abigail, to take her to himself as wife.
For all seek their own, not the things which are Jesus Christ's.
Then her husband got up and went after her, with the purpose of talking kindly to her, and taking her back with him; he had with him his young man and two asses: and she took him into her father's house, and her father, when he saw him, came forward to him with joy.
And there was trembling in the camp, in the field, and among all the people; the garrison, and the ravagers, they also trembled, and the earth quaked; for it was a trembling God.
By faith also Sarah herself did receive power to conceive seed, and she bare after the time of life, seeing she did judge Him faithful who did promise),
Then all the children of Israel went out, and the congregation was assembled as one man, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, with the land of Gilead, to Yahweh at Mizpah.
Then Saul said to David, "You are blessed, my son David. You will both do mightily, and will surely prevail." So David went his way, and Saul returned to his place.
And Adoni-Bezek said, Seventy kings, with their thumb and their great toe cut off, gleaned under my table: as I have done, so God hast requited me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and there he died.
So Jephthah passed over unto the children of Ammon to fight against them; and Jehovah delivered them into his hands.
Ask your young men, and they will tell you. Therefore let the young men find favor in your eyes; for we come on a good day. Please give whatever comes to your hand, to your servants, and to your son David.'"
And the time that David dwelt in the country of the Philistines was a full year and four months.
What ye have both learned, and receive, and heard, and seen in me, these things do; and the God of peace shall be with you.
And he himself also stripped off his clothes, and prophesied, himself also, before Samuel, and lay down naked all that day and all that night. Wherefore they say, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And Gedeon went up by the way of them that dwelt in tents, on the east of Nobe and Jegbaa, and smote the camp of the enemies, who were secure, and suspected no hurt.
because of this do ye also rejoice and joy with me.
And Saul saw that he prospered well, and he stood in awe of him.
And now what is under thy hand? give me five loaves in my hand, or what may be found.
so that my imprisonment in Christ hast become known in the whole praetorium and to all the rest,
This shall not be an occasion of grief to thee, and a scruple of heart to my lord, that thou hast shed innocent blood, Or hast revenged thyself: and when Jehovah shall have done well by my lord, thou shalt remember thy handmaid.
Then the evil spirit from Yahweh came upon Saul while he was sitting in his house with his spear in his hand. And David was playing a stringed instrument in his hand.
It was for those in Beth-el, for those in Ramoth of the Negev, for those in Jattir,
to the company and assembly of the first-born in heaven enrolled, and to God the judge of all, and to spirits of righteous men made perfect,
But I have received everything in full and have an abundance; I am well supplied because I received from Epaphroditus what you had sent, a fragrant oblation, an acceptable sacrifice, well-pleasing to God.
And he was very thirsty, and he called to Yahweh and said, "You gave this great victory into the hand of your servant, but now I must die of thirst and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised?"
And the things which you have learned and received and heard about and seen in me, practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you.
Therefore lift up the hands that hang down and the feeble knees,
This being told to Joatham, he went and stood on the top of mount Garizim: and lifting up his voice, he cried, and said: Hear me, ye men of Shechem, so may God hear you.
and hath struck into the pan, or kettle, or caldron, or pot; all that hook bringeth up doth the priest take for himself; thus they do to all Israel who are coming in, there, in Shiloh.
If there is therefore any exhortation in Christ, if any consolation of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any tender mercies and compassion,
David said furthermore As Jehovah liveth, Jehovah will smite him; or his day shall come to die; or he shall descend into battle, and perish.
holding forth the word of life; that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain, neither labored in vain.
They abandoned Yahweh, and served Baal and the Ashtaroth.
and thou shalt hear what they say; and, afterwards shall thy hand be strong, and thou shalt go down unto the camp. And he went down with Phurah his servant to the outside of the armed men that were in the camp.
Now Saul was on the hill of Hakilah, which is opposite Jeshimon by the road, but David was staying in the wilderness. When he realized that Saul had come to the wilderness after him,
The lords of the Philistines came up to her, and said to her, "Entice him, and see in which his great strength lies, and how we may prevail against him, that we may bind him to afflict him; and we will each give you eleven hundred pieces of silver."
And Saul said to Achias: Bring the ark of Jehovah. (for the ark of God was there that day with the children of Israel.)
And the princes of the Philistines said to Achis: What mean these Hebrews? And Achis said to the princes of the Philistines: Do you not know David, who was the servant of Saul the king of Israel, and hath been with me many days, or years, and I have found no fault in him, since the day that he fled over to me until this day?
And when he had come to his house, he bought his knife, and took the woman, cutting her up bone by bone into twelve parts, which he sent through all Israel.
And the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah, and the coffer that was with it, in which were the golden jewels, and put them on the great stone; and the men of Beth-shemesh offered up burnt-offerings and sacrificed sacrifices the same day to Jehovah.
They said, "Arise, and let us go up against them; for we have seen the land, and behold, it is very good. Do you stand still? Don't be slothful to go and to enter in to possess the land.
Then three thousand men of Judah went to the top of the rock Etam, and said to Samson, Knowest thou not that the Philistines are rulers over us? what is this that thou hast done unto us? And he said unto them, As they did unto me, so have I done unto them.
Then Jonathan said to David, "Whatever your soul desires, I will do it for you."
And the blood was put on the Tent and all the holy vessels in the same way.
But to which of the angels said he at any time: Sit on my right hand, until I make thy enemies underneath thy feet?
Who were left-handed, able to send a stone at a hair without error.
But the man would not be kept there that night, and he bought up and went away and came opposite to Jebus (which is Jerusalem); and he had with him the two asses, ready for travelling, and his woman.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
And now hearken unto their voice; only, testify solemnly unto them, and declare unto them the manner of the king that shall reign over them.
and they crush and oppress the sons of Israel in that year -- eighteen years all the sons of Israel are beyond the Jordan, in the land of the Amorite, which in Gilead.
My heart hath rejoiced in Jehovah, and my horn is exalted in my God: my mouth is enlarged over my enemies: because I have joyed in thy salvation.
not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers, in the day that I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; for they didn't continue in my covenant, and I disregarded them," says Jehovah.
And David said to Abner: Art thou not a man? and who is like thee in Israel? why then hast thou not kept thy lord the king? for there came one of the people in to kill the king thy lord.
And they said, Thou hast not advantage of us, and thou hast not injured us, neither hast thou taken aught of any man's hand.
Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
But when the children of Israel cried to Yahweh, Yahweh raised up a savior for them, Ehud the son of Gera, the Benjamite, a left-handed man. The children of Israel sent tribute by him to Eglon the king of Moab.
Call Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show you what you shall do. You shall anoint to me him whom I name to you."
And she made a vow, speaking: O Jehovah, of hosts, if thou wilt look down on the affliction of thy servant, and wilt be mindful of me, and not forget thy handmaid, and wilt give to thy servant a man-child, I will give him to Jehovah all the days of his life and no razor shall come upon his head.
And Saul went back, and did not pursue after the Philistines; and the Philistines went to their own places.
Moreover David took also Achinoam of Jezrahel: and they were both of them his wives.
And there is a certain man of Ramathaim-Zophim, of the hill-country of Ephraim, and his name Elkanah, son of Jeroham, son of Elihu, son of Tohu, son of Zuph, and Ephrathite,
When Abigail saw David, she hurried and got down from the donkey and fell on her face before David's anger, and she bowed down to the ground.
as to the thing which we have spoken, I and thou, lo, even Jehovah, between me and thee -- unto the age.'
Yahweh struck Benjamin before Israel; and the children of Israel destroyed of Benjamin that day twenty-five thousand one hundred men. All these drew the sword.
And Saul sent messengers to arrest David, but she said, "He is ill."
and [he will take them] that he may appoint for himself captains of thousands and captains of fifties, and that they may plough his ground, and reap his harvest, and make his instruments of war and instruments of his chariots.
He said to them, "Why do you do such things? for I hear of your evil dealings from all this people.
And news was given to Saul that David had come to Keilah. And Saul said, Now God hast given him into my hands; for by going into a walled town with locked doors, he hast let himself be shut in.
So they sent the ark of God to Ekron. And when the ark of God came to Ekron, the people of the village made an outcry, saying, They have sent the ark of the God of Israel to us for the destruction of us and of our people.
And they passed thence unto the hill-country of Ephraim, and came unto the house of Micah.
By faith Abraham, when he was called to go out into a place which he should after receive for an inheritance, obeyed; and he went out, not knowing whither he went.
And he went up thence to Penuel, and spoke to them in like manner. And the men of Penuel answered him as the men of Succoth had answered.
And David knew that Saul secretly practised mischief against him; and he said to Abiathar the priest, Bring hither the ephod.
since, would they not have ceased offered, because of those serving having no more conscience of sins, having once been purified?
Be on the watch against dogs, against the workers of evil, against those of the circumcision,
They said to the messengers who had come, "Thus you will say to the men of Jabesh Gilead: 'Tomorrow deliverance for you will come when the sun is hot.'" When the messengers went and told the men of Jabesh, they rejoiced.
And when Saul inquired of Jehovah, Jehovah answered him not, neither by dreams, nor by Urim, nor by prophets.
and to those in Hormah, and to those in Chor-Ashan, and to those in Athach,
Saul was thirty years old when he became king, and he reigned over Israel forty-two years.
And Manasseh did not dispossess Beth-shean and itself dependent villages, nor Taanach and itself dependent villages, nor the inhabitants of Dor and itself dependent villages, nor the inhabitants of Ibleam and itself dependent villages, nor the inhabitants of Megiddo and itself dependent villages; and the Canaanites would dwell in that land.
And Saul abode at the fiery end of Gibeah under the pomegranate-tree which in Migron; and the people that were with him were about six hundred men.
The Holy Spirit also testifies to us, for after saying,
And they said to him, We are come to bind thee and to deliver thee into the hands of the Philistines. And Samson said to them: Swear to me, and promise me, that you will not kill me.
even Jehovah, killeth, and maketh alive; he bringeth down to Sheol, and bringeth up.
God's ark was taken; and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were slain.
And David said in his heart, I shall now perish one day by the hand of Saul: there is nothing better for me than that I should speedily escape into the land of the Philistines; and Saul will despair concerning me to seek me any more within all the limits of Israel, and I shall escape out of his hand.
For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not have spoken afterward of another day.
By faith Moses, when he was grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter,
Yahweh sent a prophet to the children of Israel; and he said to them, "Yahweh says, the God of Israel, 'I brought you up out of Egypt, and brought you out of the house of bondage.
But Jonathan Saul's son delighted much in David. And Jonathan told David, saying, Saul my father seeks to kill thee; and now, I pray thee, take heed to thyself in the morning, and abide in the secret place and hide thyself;
Into your hand that God hath given the heads of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and what have I been able to do like you?' Then their temper desisted from off him in his speaking this thing.
Shall I then take my bread, and my water, and the flesh of my cattle, which I have killed for my shearers, and give to men whom I know not whence they are?
It came to pass that as soon as he had finished offering the burnt-offering, behold, Samuel came; and Saul went out to meet him, that he might salute him.
And it cometh to pass, while Saul spake unto the priest, that the noise which in the camp of the Philistines goeth on, going on and becoming great, and Saul saith unto the priest, `Remove thy hand.'
So all the trees said to the thornbush, 'You, come rule over us.'
Samuel told him every bit, and hid nothing from him. He said, "It is Yahweh. Let him do what seems good to him."
Now David had said, What was the use of my taking care of this man's goods in the waste land, so that there was no loss of anything which was his? he hast only given me back evil for good.
And the sons of Israel do the evil thing in the eyes of Jehovah, and serve the Baalim,
However I will not altogether take away a man of thee from my altar: but that thy eyes may faint and thy soul be spent: and a great part of thy house shall die when they come to man's estate.
And they gave him part of a cake of figs and some dry grapes; and after the food, his spirit came back to him, for he had had no food or drink for three days and nights.
And Jephthah sent again to the king of the children of Ammon,
And David said to Abigail: Blessed be Jehovah the God of Israel, who sent thee this day to meet me, and blessed be thy speech:
By that pleasure we have been made holy, by the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once and for ever.
And the servants of Achis, when they saw David, said to him: Is not this David the king of the land? Did they not sing to him in their dances, speaking: Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
And David also rose up after him: and going out of the cave cried after Saul, speaking: My lord the king. And Saul looked behind him; and David to cast us himself down to the ground, worshipped,
Now therefore, let not my blood fall to the earth before the face of Jehovah; for the king of Israel is come out to seek a flea, as when one doth hunt a partridge that in the mountains.
And Yahweh said to him, "Peace be with you. Do not fear; you will not die."
The men of Ephraim were called to arms, and they crossed over to Zaphon and said to Jephthah, "Why did you cross over and make war against the children of Ammon, and why did you not call us to go with you? We will burn down your house over you with fire."
If thy father should actually miss me, then say, David earnestly asked leave of me that he might run to Beth-lehem his city; for there is a yearly sacrifice there for all the family.
And one answered another, speaking: And who is their father? therefore it became a proverb: Is Saul also among the prophets?
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and put themselves in fighting order against Gibeah as beforetime.
As it is said, To-day if you will let his voice come to your ears, be not hard of heart, as when you made him angry.
Then they found an Egyptian man in the open country and brought him to David, and they gave him food and he ate; they also gave him water.
They cut off his head, stripped off his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines all around, to carry the news to the house of their idols, and to the people.
And Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him, and not one of his words fell to the ground.
and not in order that he can offer himself many times, as the high priest enters into the sanctuary year by year with blood not his own,
And your seed and your vineyards he doth tithe, and hath given to his eunuchs, and to his servants.
For ye both sympathised with prisoners and accepted with joy the plunder of your goods, knowing that ye have for yourselves a better substance, and an abiding one.
After which David's heart smote him, because he had cut off the skirts of Saul's robe.
for he put his life in his hand, and struck the Philistine, and Yahweh worked a great victory for all Israel. You saw it, and rejoiced. Why then will you sin against innocent blood, to kill David without a cause?"
Saul said to the Kenite, "Go, depart, go down from among the Amalekites, lest I destroy you with them; for you showed kindness to all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt." So the Kenites departed from among the Amalekites.
Now the name of the man was Nabal; and the name of his wife Abigail. This woman was intelligent and had a beautiful face; but the man was surly and evil in his doings. He was of the house of Caleb.
Saul sent to Jesse, saying, "Please let David stand before me; for he hast found favor in my sight."
When I blow the trumpet, I and all that are with me, then blow the trumpets also on every side of all the camp, and shout, 'For Yahweh and for Gideon!'"
And the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together to Masphath, and the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. And when the children of Israel heard this, they were afraid of the Philistines.
And Samuel said to him: What hast thou done? Saul answered: Because I saw that the people slipt from me, and thou wast not come according to the days appointed, and the Philistines were gathered together in Machmas,
And Jehovah said to Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee: for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them.
We desire that each one of you may show the same diligence to the fullness of hope even to the end,
And there is a man of the hill-country of Ephraim, and his name Micah,
And they found among the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead four hundred young virgins who had not had sex with a man, and they brought them to the camp at Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
And Jehovah said, Samuel. And Samuel got up and went to Eli and said, Here am I; for you certainly said my name. But he said in answer, I said nothing, my son; go to your rest again.
And Samuel said, Bring ye near to me Agag the king of Amalek. And Agag came to him gaily. And Agag said, Surely the bitterness of death is passed away.
There was a certain Levite, who dwelt on the side of the hill-country of Ephraim, who took a wife of Beth-lehem Judah:
And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of Jehovah: and he delivered them into the hands of the Philistines forty years.
The children of Israel again did that which was evil in Yahweh's sight; and Yahweh delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
And he riseth early in the morning, on the fifth day, to go, and the father of the young woman saith, `Support, I pray thee, thy heart;' and they have tarried till the turning of the day, and they eat, both of them.
For this reason he is the mediator of a new covenant, since a death hast occurred for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first covenant, that those who have been called may receive the promise of the eternal inheritance.
and go out into the field, and gather their vineyards, and tread, and make praises, and go into the house of their god, and eat and drink, and reproach Abimelech.
The children of Israel said to Yahweh, "We have sinned. Do you to us whatever seems good to you; only deliver us, please, today."
Now therefore if thou have anything at hand, though but five loaves, give me, or whatsoever thou canst find.
And you now are risen up against my father's house, and have killed his sons seventy men upon one stone, and have made Abimelech the son of his handmaid king over the inhabitants of Shechem, because he is your brother:
Then said Jonathan, Behold, we will pass over to the men, and we will show ourselves to them.
And Saul saith unto Samuel, `I have sinned, for I passed over the command of Jehovah, and thy words; because I have feared the people, I also hearken to their voice;
But a certain fearful looking for of justice, and fiery zeal, about to devour the opposers;
Fear not; for the hand of my father Saul shall not find thee, and thou shalt reign over Israel, and I shall be next to thee, yea, and my father knoweth this.
And they make a covenant both of them before Jehovah; and David abideth in the forest, and Jonathan hath gone to his house.
For such a chief priest did become us -- kind, harmless, undefiled, separate from the sinners, and become higher than the heavens,
If you will fear Jehovah, and serve him, and hearken to his voice, and not provoke the mouth of Jehovah; then shall both you, and the king who reigneth over you, be imitators of Jehovah your God.
And the servant-wife he had in Shechem had a son by him, to whom he gave the name Abimelech.
The men of Israel had sworn at Mizpah, saying, "None of us will give his daughter to Benjamin as a wife."
Wherefore even Jehovah, the God of Israel saith, I said indeed, Thy house and the house of thy father should walk before me for ever. But now Jehovah saith, Be it far from me; for them that honor me I will honor, and they that despise me shall be easily esteemed.
that same night, Yahweh said to him, "Take your father's bull, even the second bull seven years old, and throw down the altar of Baal that your father has, and cut down the Asherah that is by it.
And when ye saw that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against you, ye said unto me, Nay; but a king shall reign over us: when Jehovah your God was your king.
So that we may confidently say: Jehovah is my helper: I will not fear what man shall do to me.
while it is said, "Today if you will hear his voice, don't harden your hearts in the rebellion."
And he went unto his father's house at Ophrah, and slew his brethren the sons of Jerubbaal, being threescore and ten persons, upon one stone; notwithstanding yet Jotham the youngest son of Jerubbaal was left; for he hid himself.
And they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who had brought them out of the land of Egypt: and they followed foreign gods, and the gods of the peoples that dwelt round about them, and they adored them: and they provoked Jehovah to anger.
For God is my witness how I long after you all in bowels of Christ Jesus.
For in that, wherein he himself hath suffered and been tempted, he is able to succor them also that are tempted.
not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as a custom of certain , but exhorting, and so much the more as ye see the day coming at hand.
And Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan; and Saul sware, As Jehovah liveth, he shall not be slain.
And Jonathan answereth Saul, `David hath been earnestly asked of me unto Beth-Lehem,
Then he said, See, I have come to do your pleasure. He took away the old order, so that he might put the new order in itself place.
And he learned of Yahweh for him and gave him provisions and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine."
And Ehud escaped while they delayed. He passed by the sculptured stones and escaped to Seirah.
Then Zebul said to him, Now where is your loud talk when you said, Who is Abimelech that we are to be his servants? Is this not the people whom you were rating so low? Go out now, and make war on them.
And the Philistines have taken the ark of God, and bring it in from Eben-Ezer to Ashdod,
And Saul, asking directions from God, said, Am I to go down after the Philistines? will you give them up into the hands of Israel? But he gave him no answer that day.
If the man said to him, "Let the fat be burned first, and then take as much as your soul desires"; then he would say, "No, but you shall give it to me now; and if not, I will take it by force."
David asked Ahimelech, "Is there not at your disposal a spear or a sword? For I took neither my sword nor my weapons with me because the king's matter was urgent."
And the people sendeth to Shiloh, and they take up thence the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of Hosts, inhabiting the cherubs, and there two sons of Eli, with the ark of the covenant of God, Hophni and Phinehas.
And it cometh to pass, at his mentioning the ark of God, that he falleth from off the throne backward, by the side of the gate, and his neck is broken, and he dieth, for the man old and heavy, and he hath judged Israel forty years.
And she put it before Saul and his servants, and they had a meal. Then they gat up and went away the same night.
And as it may be said) even Levi who received tithes, paid tithes in Abraham:
And when his servants said these words to David, he was well pleased to be the son-in-law of the king. And the days were still not past.
The angel of Yahweh came and sat under the oak that was at Ophrah that belonged to Jehoash the Abiezrite; and Gideon his son was threshing wheat in the winepress to hide it from the Midianites.
And so, after he had patiently endured, he obtained promise.
For he of whom these things are spoken pertaineth to another tribe, of which no man gave heed at the altar.
David went from there and escaped to the cave of Adullam. When his brothers and all his father's household heard, they came down to him there.
Then the princes of the Philistines went forth: and it came to pass, after they went forth, that David behaved himself more wisely than all the servants of Saul; so that his name was much set by.
Please don't go away, until I come to you, and bring out my present, and lay it before you." He said, "I will wait until you come back."
For ye are not come unto the mount that might be touched, and that burned with fire, nor unto blackness, and darkness, and tempest,
And she said, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. And he awoke out of his sleep, and said, I will go out as at other times before, and shake myself. And he knew not that Jehovah was departed from him.
And the golden mice according to the number of the cities of the Philistines, of the five provinces, from the fortified city to the village that was without wall, and to the great Abel (the stone) whereon they set down the ark of Jehovah, which was till that day in the field of Josue the Bethsamite.
So Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and commander over them. And Jephthah spoke all his words before Yahweh at Mizpah.
He went up there to Penuel, and spoke to them in the same way; and the men of Penuel answered him as the men of Succoth had answered.
But one of the servants told Abigail the wife of Nabal, speaking: Behold David sent messengers out of the wilderness, to salute our master: and he rejected them.
Nevertheless you have done well by sharing with me in my affliction.
Again he limiteth a certain day, saying in David, To day, after so long a time, as it is above said: To-day if you shall hear his voice, harden not your hearts.
so also the Christ, once having been offered to bear the sins of many, a second time, apart from a sin-offering, shall be manifested, to those waiting for him -- to salvation!
But Zebulun and Nephtali offered their lives to death in the region of Merome.
And Saul is abiding at the extremity of Gibeah, under the pomegranate which in Migron, and the people who with him, about six hundred men,
Gideon said to God, "Don't let your anger be kindled against me, and I will speak but this once. Please let me make a proof just this once with the fleece. Let it now be dry only on the fleece, and on all the ground let there be dew."
and others of mockings and scourgings did receive trial; and yet of bonds and imprisonment;
and on the third day thou dost certainly come down, and hast come in unto the place where thou wast hidden in the day of the work, and hast remained near the stone Ezel.
not abandoning our meeting together, as is the habit by some, but encouraging each other, and by so much more as you see the day drawing near.
And when he had shewn them, they smote the city with the edge of the sword; but that man and all his kindred they let go:
For the purpose of testing Israel by them, to see if they would give ear to the orders of Jehovah, which he had given to their fathers by Moses.
He in the days of his flesh, having offered up prayers and petitions with strong crying and tears to him who was able to save him from death, and having been heard for his godly fear,
Then the lords of the Philistines brought up to her seven green cords which had not been dried up, and she bound him with them.
Then Saul said to Jonathan, Give me an account of what you have done. And Jonathan gave him the commentary and said, Certainly I took a little honey on the end of my rod; and now death is to be my fate.
And the men of Israel are called from Naphtali, and from Asher, and from all Manasseh, and pursue after Midian.
Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling.
He will keep the feet of his holy ones, But the wicked shall be put to silence in darkness; for no man shall prevail by strength.
For this child I prayed; and Jehovah hath given me my petition which I asked of him:
But one of the young men told Abigail, Nabal's wife, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to salute our master; and he railed on them.
I heard that thy shepherds that were with us in the desert were shearing: we never molested them, neither was there ought missing to them of the flock at any time, all the while they were with us in Carmel.
Then the trees said to the vine, You come and be king over us.
for God it is who is working in you both to will and to work for His good pleasure.
And the men of Israel turned, and the men of Benjamin were dismayed because they saw that disaster was closing in on them.
Isn't this David, of whom people sang to one another in dances, saying, 'Saul hast slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?'"
And the Philistine said, I have defied the ranks of Israel this day; give me a man, that we may fight together.
And Saul was afraid of David, because Jehovah was with him, and had departed from Saul.
And because of this, of a new covenant he is mediator, that, death having come, for the redemption of the transgressions under the first covenant, those called may receive the promise of the age-during inheritance,
And Samson lay till midnight, and arose at midnight, and took the doors of the gate of the city, and the two posts, and went away with them, bar and all, and put them upon his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of a hill that is before Hebron.
Then Saul said to his servant, But if we go, what are we to take the man? all our bread is gone, and we have no oblation to take to the man of God: what are we to do?
After they moved it, the hand of Yahweh was against the city, causing a very great confusion, and he smote the men of the city from the youngest to the oldest, causing tumors to break out on them.
Abimelech also hearing that the men of the tower of Sichem were gathered together,
so Christ also, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time, without sin, to those who are eagerly waiting for him for salvation.
And the men of Judah said, Why are ye come up against us? And they answered, To bind Samson are we come up, to do to him as he hath done to us.
Gideon said, "Therefore when Yahweh hast delivered Zebah and Zalmunna into my hand, then I will tear your flesh with the thorns of the wilderness and with briers."
But if you will not hearken to the voice of Jehovah, but will rebel against his words, the hand of Jehovah shall be upon you, and upon your fathers.
And they come in over against Gibeah -- ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel -- and the battle grievous, and they have not known that the evil is striking against them.
only in victuals, and drinks, and different baptisms, and fleshly ordinances -- till the time of reformation imposed upon .
Remember those who are in bonds, as bound with them; and those who are ill-treated, since you are also in the body.
While Saul talked to the priest, the tumult that was in the camp of the Philistines went on and increased; and Saul said to the priest, "Withdraw your hand!"
Then the children of Israel did put away the Baalim and Ashtaroth, and served Jehovah only.
For the word of God is living and active and worse than any double-edged sword, and swift as far as the division of soul and spirit, both joints and marrow, and able to judge the reflections and thoughts of the heart.
Lord, when you went out from Seir, moving like an army from the field of Edom, the earth was shaking and the heavens were troubled, and the clouds were dropping water.
And David went up from there to Mizpah of Moab. He said to the king of Moab, "Please let my father and my mother stay with you until I know what God will do for me."
I give thanks to my God upon all the remembrance of you,
And David said to Achis: If I have found favor in thy sight, let a place be given me in one of the cities of this country, that I may dwell there: for why should thy servant dwell in the royal city with thee?
And Michal causeth David to go down through the window, and he goeth on, and fleeth, and escapeth;
And Saul and all the people that were with him assembled themselves, and they came to the battle: and, behold, every man's sword was against his fellow, and there was a very great discomfiture.
And thou shalt go down before me to Gilgal, and behold, I will come down to thee, to offer up burnt-offerings, to sacrifice sacrifices of peace-offerings: seven days shalt thou wait, until I come to thee and shall teach thee what thou shalt do.
And the people returned to the camp: and the elders of Israel said: Why hath Jehovah defeated us to day before the Philistines? Let us fetch unto us the ark of the covenant of Jehovah from Silo, and let it come in the midst of us, that it may save us from the hand of our adversaries.
Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended: but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth unto those things which are before,
The princes of Succoth said, "Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna now in your hand, that we should give bread to your army?"
I exhort Euodia, and I exhort Syntyche, to think the same way in the Lord.
And Eli called Samuel, and said, Samuel, my son. And he said, Here am I.
Then Judah took Azzah and itself limit, and Ashkelon and itself limit, and Ekron and itself limit.
according to zeal persecuting the church, according to the righteousness in the law being blameless.
The caravans took from the plunder, sheep and cattle, the best of the things devoted to destruction, to sacrifice to Yahweh your God at Gilgal."
And the Sidonians and Amalek and Midian crushing you down, and in answer to your cry did I not give you salvation from their hands?
This I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and all discernment;
Her wise princesses answered her, Yea, she returned answer to herself,
being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
but on the third day thou shalt go down quickly, and come to the place where thou didst hide thyself on the day of the business, and abide by the stone Ezel.
But David pursued, he and four hundred men: for two hundred abode behind, which were so faint that they could not go over the brook Besor.
Now may the God of peace, who made the great keeper of his flock, even our Lord Jesus, come back from the dead through the blood of the eternal agreement,
And all they of the land came to a wood; and there was honey on the ground.
Then Jonathan called David and told him all these words: and Jonathan brought in David to Saul, and he was before him, as he had been yesterday and the day beforehand.
From the heaven the stars fought. From their courses, they fought against Sisera.
And the people said to Samuel, Who is he that said, Shall Saul reign over us? bring the men, that we may put them to death.
And they say, `Lo, a festival of Jehovah in Shiloh, from time to time, which on the north of Beth-El, at the rising of the sun, by the highway which is going up from Beth-El to Shechem, and on the south of Lebonah.'
But they did not even hearken to their judges, for they played the harlot after other gods, and bowed themselves to them; they turned quickly out of the way that their fathers had walked in, your obedience to the commandments of Jehovah; they did not so.
Let married life be honored among all of you and not made unclean; for men untrue in married life will be judged by God.
if chastening ye endure, as to sons God beareth Himself to you, for who is a son whom a father doth not chasten?
And Samuel came no more to see Saul until the day of his death: nevertheless Samuel mourned for Saul: and Jehovah repented that he had made Saul king over Israel.
Now Zebah and Zalmunna were in Karkor, and their hosts with them, about fifteen thousand men, all that were left of all the hosts of the children of the east: for there fell a hundred and twenty thousand men that drew sword.
And he said: It is peaceable: I am come to offer sacrifice to Jehovah, be ye sanctified, and come with me to the sacrifice. And he sanctified Isai and his sons, and called them to the sacrifice.
But I rejoiced in Lord greatly, that now however at length ye have revived your thinking of me, though surely ye did also think [of me], but lacked opportunity.
then he hast said, "Behold, I have come to do your will." He takes away the first, that he may establish the second,
And the sound of the trumpet, and the voice of words, which they that heard excused themselves, that the word might not be spoken to them:
For then must he often have suffered since the foundation of the world: but now once in the end of the world hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.
And Jonathan cried after the lad, Make speed, haste, stay not! And Jonathan's lad gathered up the arrows, and came to his master.
Then Saul said to his servant, "But, behold, if we go, what should we bring the man? For the bread is spent in our sacks, and there is not a present to bring to the man of God. What do we have?"
And Saul said to him, Why have ye conspired against me, thou and the son of Jesse, in that thou hast given him bread, and a sword, and hast learned of God for him, that he should rise against me as a lier-in-wait, as at this day?
But now, your kingdom will not endure. Yahweh hast sought for himself a man according to his own heart, and Yahweh hast appointed him as leader over his people, because you have not kept what Yahweh commanded you."
I prayed for this boy, and Yahweh hast given me my request that I asked from him.
we push the south of the Cherethite, and against that which to Judah, and against the south of Caleb, and Ziklag we burned with fire.'
And, behold, Saul came after the herd out of the field; and Saul said, What aileth the people that they weep? And they told him the tidings of the men of Jabesh.
So Yahweh sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor. The commander of his army was Sisera, and he was living in Harosheth Haggoyim.
My heart is toward the governors of Israel, who offered themselves willingly among the people. Bless Yahweh!
But the fig-tree said to them, Should I leave my sweetness, and my good fruit, and go to wave over the trees?
And when the flame from the altar went up towards heaven, the angel of lord ascended also in the flame. And when Manue and his wife saw this, they fell on the ground.
And others had proof of cruel mockings and scourgings, yea, moreover of bonds and imprisonment:
So Achish said, Have ye not made a raid to-day? And David said, Against the south of Judah, and against the south of the Jerahmeelites, and against the south of the Kenites.
So they sent men to make a search round Beth-el. (Now the name of the village in earlier times was Luz.)
And Jehovah said to Samuel, Hearken unto their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said to the men of Israel, Go ye every man to his city.
and, now, rise by night, thou and the people who with thee, and lay wait in the field,
Only to-day I began to inquire of God for him. Far be it from me that the king should impute anything against his servant or against my father's household, for your servant hast not known any of this matter, little or much."
and her father saith, I certainly said, that thou didst certainly hate her, and I give her to thy companion; is not her sister -- the young one -- better than she be? Let her be, I pray thee, to thee, instead of her.'
And Sisera fled on foot to the tent of Jael the wife of Heber the Kenite; for there was peace between Jabin the king of Hazor and the house of Heber the Kenite.
And David said to Abner, Art thou not a valiant man? and who is like to thee in Israel? wherefore then hast thou not kept thy lord the king? for there came one of the people in to destroy the king thy lord.
And the chiefs of the Philistines came together to make a great oblation to Dagon their god, and to rejoice; for they said, Our god hast given into our hands Samson our hater.
So Michal lowered David through the window, and he went and fled and escaped.
And the children of Ammon were summoned, and they encamped in Gilead. And Israel gathered and encamped at Mizpah.
Ask your servants and they will tell you! Let the young men find favor in your eyes because we have come on a feast day. Please give whatever you have on hand for your servants and for your son David."
For the word of God living and operative, and worse than any two-edged sword, and penetrating to division of soul and spirit, both of joints and marrow, and a discerner of the thoughts and intents of heart.
The Sidonians also, and the Amalekites, and the Maonites, did oppress you; and ye cried to me, and I delivered you out of their hand.
Went up into mount Selmon he and all his people with him: and taking an axe, he cut down the boughs of a tree, and laying it on his shoulder and carrying it, he said to his companions: What you see me do, do you out of hand.
The Philistines put themselves in array against Israel. When they joined battle, Israel was defeated by the Philistines, who killed about four thousand men of the army in the field.
So the children of Benjamin saw that they were overcome; and the men of Israel had given way before Benjamin, putting their faith in the watchers who were to make the surprise attack on Gibeah.
But the people refused to listen to the voice of Samuel: and they said, "No; but we will have a king over us,
And he had greaves of brass on its legs, and a shield of brass covered his shoulders.
Let us hold fast the confession of the hope unwavering, (for he faithful who hast promised;)
Not looking everyone to his private good, but keeping in mind the things of others.
Saul's servants said to him, "See now, an evil spirit from God troubles you.
And Jael went out to Sisera, and said to him, Come in, my lord, come in to me without fear. So he went into its tent, and she put a cover over him.
And the men of Shechem set liers-in-wait for him in the top of the mountains, and they robbed all that came along that way by them: and it was told Abimelech.
And they turn aside the gods of the stranger out of their midst, and serve Jehovah, and His soul is grieved with the misery of Israel.
And David seeth that Saul hath come out to seek his life, and David in the wilderness of Ziph, in a forest.
And the kine took the straight way that leadeth to Bethsames, and they went along the way, lowing as they went; and turned not aside neither to the right hand nor to the left: and the lords of the Philistines followed them as far as the borders of Bethsames.
And the men of Israel saw that they were in a narrow (for the people were distressed); and the people hid themselves in caves, and in the thickets, and in cliffs, and in strongholds, and in pits.
Then the king said, "You must certainly die, Ahimelech, you and all your father's household!"
And Jephthah came to Mizpah to his house, and behold, his daughter came out to meet him with tambours and with dances; and she was an only child: besides her he had neither son nor daughter.
And the princes of the Philistines went forth; and it came to pass, whenever they went forth, that David succeeded better than all the servants of Saul; and his name was much esteemed.
And six hundred men from the descendants of Dan, armed with their weapons of war, were standing at the entrance of the gate.
to those who were in Racal, to those who were in the cities of the Jerahmeelites, to those who were in the cities of the Kenite,
looking diligently, lest any man be wanting to the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness springing up do hinder, and by it many be defiled.
For you know that even when he afterward desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no place for a change of mind though he sought it diligently with tears.
And concerning the word which I and thou have spoken, Jehovah be between thee and me for ever.
For when God made his oath to Abraham, because there was no greater oath, he made it by himself,
And some of the Hebrews went over the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead. As for Saul, he was yet in Gilgal, and all the people followed him trembling.
And the name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam, the daughter of Ahimaaz: and the name of the captain of his host was Abner, the son of Ner, Saul's uncle.
And behold, as Barak pursued Sisera, Jael went out to meet him, and said to him, Come, and I will show thee the man whom thou seekest. And he entered into her , and behold, Sisera lay dead, and the pin was in his temples.
The river Kishion swept them away, that ancient river, the river Kishon. My soul, march on with strength.
And she said, The glory is departed from Israel, for the ark of God is taken.
And Jehovah said to him: Peace be with thee: fear not, thou shalt not die.
Then Samuel said to Saul, "Yahweh sent me to anoint you as king over his people Israel. So then, listen to the words of Yahweh!
And she made him go to sleep on her knees; and she sent for a man and had his seven twists of hair cut off; and while it was being done he became feeble and his strength went from him.
Saul said to Michal, "Why have you deceived me thus, and let my enemy go, so that he is escaped?" Michal answered Saul, "He said to me, 'Let me go! Why should I kill you?'"
And David saith to his men, `Gird ye on each his sword;' and they gird on each his sword, and David also girdeth on his sword, and there go up after David about four hundred men, and two hundred have remained by the vessels.
So Delilah said to Samson, Make clear to me now what is the secret of your great strength, and how you may be put in bonds and made of no account.
Since therefore it remains for some to enter into it, and the ones to whom the good news was proclaimed previously did not enter because of disobedience,
Then Delilah said to Samson, Up to now you have made sport of me with false words; now say truly, how may you be put in bands? And he said to her, If you get the seven twists of my hair worked into the cloth you are making and fixed with the pin, I will become feeble and will be like any other man.
And the children of Benjamin did not dispossess the Jebusites, the inhabitants of Jerusalem; but the Jebusites dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
And the whole weight of the battle was turned upon Saul: and the archers overtook him, and he was grievously wounded by the archers.
And Samuel said to Saul, Stay, that I may tell thee what even Jehovah, hast said to me this night. And he said to him, Say on.
For if the word spoken through angels was binding and every transgression and act of disobedience received a just penalty,
And David saith to Ahimelech the priest, `The king hath commanded me a matter, and he saith unto me, Let no man know anything of the matter about which I am sending thee, and which I have commanded thee; and the young men I have caused to know at such and such a place;
And as he did so year by year, when she went up to the house of Jehovah, so she provoked her; therefore she wept, and did not eat.
And Samson went and captured three hundred foxes, and he took torches. He turned them tail to tail, and he put one flaming between two tails.
And he made himself a two-edged sword, with a haft in the midst of the length of the palm of the hand, and was girded therewith under his garment on the right thigh.
If there be therefore any comfort in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bowels and mercies,
And David took these words to heart, fearing Achish, the king of Gath.
So Saul tried to pin David to the wall with the spear, but he eluded Saul, so that he struck the spear into the wall, and David fled and escaped that same night.
And Saul asked counsel of God, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? But he answered him not that day.
For every high priest taken from among men, is ordained for men in the things that appertain to God, that he may offer up gifts and sacrifices for sins:
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he delivered them into the hands of destroyers that plundered them, and he sold them into the hands of their enemies round about, so that they could not any longer stand before their enemies.
Then the princes of the Philistines said, "What about these Hebrews?" Achish said to the princes of the Philistines, "Isn't this David, the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who hast been with me these days, or rather these years, and I have found no fault in him since he fell away to today?"
God having provided some better thing for us, that they without us should not be made perfect?
His master said to him, "We won't turn aside into the city of a foreigner that is not of the children of Israel; but we will pass over to Gibeah."
And Saul said to Samuel: I have sinned because I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and thy words, fearing the people, and your obedience to their voice.
and the other out of love, having known that for defence of the good news I am set:
Now the Philistines, having taken the ark of God, took it with them from Eben-ezer to Ashdod.
However, Saul and the army spared Agag and the best of the sheep and the cattle and the second best of the young fatlings and all that was valuable; they were not willing to utterly destroy them. But all the possessions that were despised or worthless, they utterly destroyed.
And David said unto Abiathar, I knew it that day, when Doeg the Edomite was there, that he would surely tell Saul: I have occasioned the death of all the persons of thy father's house.
God listened to the voice of Manoah, and the angel of God came again to the woman as she sat in the field, but Manoah, her husband, wasn't with her.
And they smote the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon: and the people were very faint.
Now Saul and they and all the men of Israel were in the valley of Elah fighting the Philistines.
And behold, Barak was pursuing Sisera, and Jael went out to meet him, and she said to him, "Come, and I will show you the man whom you are seeking." And he came with its and saw that Sisera was lying dead with the peg in his temple.
And it was reported to Saul that David had fled to Gath, so he no longer searched for him.
And the women sang as they danced, and they said, "Saul hast struck down his thousands, but David his ten thousands!"
what do we do for them -- for those who are left -- for wives, and we -- we have sworn by even Jehovah, not to give to them of our daughters for wives?'
The children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and set themselves in array against Gibeah, as at other times.
And David swore again and again, and said, Thy father certainly knows that I have found favor in thy sight: and he hast thought, Jonathan shall not know this, lest he be grieved; but truly Jehovah liveth, and thy soul liveth, there is but a step between me and death.
The angel of Jehovah put forth the tip of the rod, which he held in his hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened loaves: and there arose a fire from the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened loaves: and the angel of Jehovah vanished out of his sight.
And Saul saith unto Samuel, `Because -- I have hearkened to the voice of Jehovah, and I go in the way which Jehovah hath sent me, and bring in Agag king of Amalek, and Amalek I have devoted;
Then Abigail hurried and took two hundred loaves of bread, two wine-skins, five sheep ready dressed, five seahs of parched grain, one hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and laid them on donkeys.
And the sons of Israel draw near unto the sons of Benjamin on the second day,
And they go up in to the city; they are coming in to the midst of the city, and lo, Samuel is coming out to meet them, to go up to the high place;
And the Philistine drew near morning and evening, and presented himself forty days.
As she continued praying before Yahweh, Eli saw her mouth.
By faith Joseph, as he was dying, mentioned about the exodus of the sons of Israel and gave instructions about his bones.
None of theirs was missing from the smallest to the greatest, even sons and daughters, from the plunder up to everything they had taken for themselves; David brought back everything.
And his fellow answered and said, This is nothing else save the sword of Gideon the son of Joash, a man of Israel; for into his hand hath God delivered Midian, and all the host.
and the man saith unto him, `Let them surely make a perfume as to-day) with the fat, then take to thee as thy soul desireth;' and he hath said to him, `Surely now thou dost give; and if not -- I have taken by strength.'
He took the elders of the city and the thorn bushes and briers of the wilderness, and he trampled the men of Succoth with them.
The things which you have both learned, and receive, and heard, and seen in me, these do ye, and the God of peace shall be with you.
But in them there is a reminder of sins year by year.
But made himself of no repute, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men:
And with whom was he angry for forty years? Was it not with those who sinned, whose dead bodies fell in the wilderness?
And David fleeth from Naioth in Ramah, and cometh, and saith before Jonathan, `What have I done? what mine iniquity? and what my sin before thy father, that he is seeking my life?'
And Achis said to his servants: You saw the man was mad; why have you brought him to me?
Look, find out all of the hiding places where he hides. Then return to me with dependable information, and I will go with you. And then if he is there in the land, then I will seek him among all the thousands of Judah."
Then the king sent to call Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests that were in Nob; and they came all of them to the king.
And as David returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistine in his hand.
So after they had taken food and wine in the guest chamber, Hannah got up. Now Eli the priest was seated by the pillars of the doorway of the Temple of Jehovah.
Now at that time Samuel had no knowledge of Jehovah, and the revelation of the word of Jehovah had not come to him.
He answered them: Go in peace, Jehovah looketh on your way, and the journey that you go.
He had a son whose name was Saul, a young and handsome man. There was not a man from the Israelites more handsome than he was; from his shoulders up, he was taller than all the people.
And Saul saith, `Draw ye nigh hither all, the chiefs of the people, and know and see in what this sin hath been to-day;
Let us hold fast to the confession of our hope without wavering, for the one who promised is faithful.
Moreover Jehovah will also deliver Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow shalt thou and thy sons be with me: Jehovah also shall deliver the host of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
And Gaal, the son of Ebed, said, Who is Abimelech and who is Shechem, that we are to be his servants? Is it not right for the son of Jerubbaal and Zebul his captain to be servants to the men of Hamor, the father of Shechem? But why are we to be his servants?
And see how great this one , to whom also a tenth Abraham the patriarch did give out of the best of the spoils,
Hear, ye kings; give ear, ye princes, I, to Jehovah, I -- I do sing, I sing praise to Jehovah, the God of Israel.
Therefore the men of Jabesh said, "Tomorrow we will come out to you, and you shall do with us all that seems good to you."
And running to Eli he said, Here am I, for you said my name. And Eli said, I did not say your name; go to your rest again. So he went back to his bed.
War from heaven was made against them, the stars remaining in their order and courses fought against Sisara.
When they were near the house of Micah, hearing a voice which was not strange to them, that of the young Levite, they went out of their road to his place, and said to him, How did you come here? and what are you doing in this place? and why are you here?
Your servant struck both the lion and the bear. This uncircumcised Philistine shall be as one of them, since he hast defied the armies of the living God."
And as they pressed hard upon them, the elders of Galaad went to fetch Jephte out of the land of Tob to help them;
Be not hearer to entertain strangers: for thereby some have entertained angels suddenly as a snare:
And Judah went up; and Jehovah delivered the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hand, and they smote them in Bezek, ten thousand men.
But his sons did not walk in his ways; they turned aside after gain, they took bribe, and they perverted justice.
And if your father takes note of the fact that I am away, say, David made a request to me for himself that he might go to Beth-lehem, to his town: for it is the time when his family make their oblation year by year.
And Samuel turneth round to go, and he layeth hold on the skirt of his upper robe -- and it is rent!
And Delilah said to Samson, Tell me, I pray thee, wherein thy great strength lieth, and wherewith thou mightest be bound to afflict thee.
Samson went down to Timna, and saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines.
If he shall say, It is well: thy servant shall have peace: but if he be angry, know that his malice is come to itself height.
Howbeit the hair of his head began to grow again after he was shaven.
And Achis said to him: Whom hast thou gone against to-day? David answered: Against the south of Joda, and against the south of Jerameel, and against the south of Ceni.
And Michal took the image, and laid it in the bed, and put the net of goats' at itself head, and covered it with the coverlet.
After Abimelech, Tola the son of Puah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar, arose to save Israel. He lived in Shamir in the hill-country of Ephraim.
so that you may approve what is superior, in order that you may be spiritual and guiltless in the day of Christ,
So Jonathan said to his armor bearer, "Come, let us go over to the garrisons of these uncircumcised; perhaps Yahweh will act for us, for there is no hindrance for Yahweh to save by many or by few."
And Saul encamped in the hill of Hachilah, which faces the waste, by the way side. And David abode in the wilderness; and when he saw that Saul had come after him into the wilderness,
And the children of Israel said to Samuel, cease not to cry to Jehovah our God for us, that he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
Let us then go out to him outside the circle of the tents, taking his shame on ourselves.
"Then all the trees said to the bramble, 'Come and reign over us.'
And they turned into it, to lodge there. And when they were come in, they sat in the street of the city, for no man would receive them to lodge.
Now Samuel did not yet know Jehovah, neither had the word of Jehovah yet been revealed to him.
Then Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite died and was buried in Pirathon, in the land of Ephraim in the hill-country of the Amalekites.
At the end of the two months she returned to her father, and he did to her according to his vow; and she did not sleep with a man. And it became a annual custom in Israel
And there hath not lacked to them , from small unto great, and unto sons and daughters, and from the spoil, even unto all that they had taken to themselves, the whole hath David brought back,
And it was so, as she rode on the ass, that she came down by the covert on the hill, and, behold, David and his men came down against her; and she met them.
And it is true that there have been a great number of those priests, because death does not let them go on for ever;
Not that I seek for the gift, but I seek for the fruit that increases to your account.
When David's servants had come to Abigail to Carmel, they spoke to her, saying, "David hast sent us to you, to take you to him as wife."
for if the word being spoken through messengers did become stedfast, and every transgression and disobedience did receive a just recompense,
Also Judah took Gaza, itself border, and Ashkelon with itself border, and Ekron with itself border.
And Heber Kain hath been separated from the Kenite, from the sons of Hobab father-in-law of Moses, and he stretcheth out his tent unto the oak in Zaanaim, which by Kedesh.
And when Jehovah hast done for my lord all those good things which he hast said he will do for you, and hast made you a ruler over Israel;
"Tomorrow about this time I will send you a man out of the land of Benjamin, and you shall anoint him to be prince over my people Israel. He will save my people out of the hand of the Philistines; for I have looked upon my people, because their cry hast come to me."
and the tower of Penuel he hath broken down, and slayeth the men of the city.
And they waited till they were put to shame; and behold, he opened not the doors of the upper-chamber, and they took the key, and opened , and behold, their lord lay dead on the earth.
and the Philistines follow Saul and his sons, and the Philistines smite Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchi-shua, sons of Saul.
Then let us come near to the seat of grace without fear, so that lovingkindness may be given to us, and we may get grace for our help in time of need.
Every priest indeed stands day by day serving and often offering the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins,
And the battle went sore against Saul, and the archers overtook him; and he was sore wounded of the archers.
When Saul saw the army of the Philistines, he was afraid and his heart trembled greatly.
So when I saw that there was no help to be had from you, I put my life in my hand and went over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah gave them into my hands: why then have you come up to me this day to make war on me?
But now his position as priest is higher. because through him God hast made a better agreement with man, based on the giving of better things.
ye may not harden your hearts in the provocation, in the day of the temptation in the wilderness,
The woman hurried and ran, and told her husband, and said to him, "Behold, the man who came to me that day hast appeared to me,"
For all of you have conspired against me, and no one discloses to me the making of an agreement between my son and the son of Jesse! None of you have had sympathy for me or disclosed to me that my son commissioned my servant against me to ambush me as hast been done this day!"
And Saul hearkened to the voice of Jonathan, and Saul swore, Jehovah liveth, he shall not be put to death!
For the bodies of those beasts, whose blood is brought into the holies by the high priest for sin, are burned without the camp.
Then Saul came up to Samuel in the doorway of the village and said, Give me directions, if you will be so good, to the house of the seer.
Who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions.
David arose, and fled that day for fear of Saul, and went to Achish the king of Gath.
Who made him angry when his voice came to them? was it not all those who came out of Egypt with Moses?
And the next day again, when they rose in the morning, they found Dagon lying upon his face on the earth before the ark of Jehovah: and the head of Dagon, and both the palms of his hands were cut off upon the threshold:
And the evil spirit from Jehovah came upon Saul, and he sat in his house, and held a spear in his hand; and David played with his hand.
Pray for us: for we trust we have a good conscience in all things desiring to live honestly.
Asher hath not dispossessed the inhabitants of Accho, and the inhabitants of Sidon, and Ahlab, and Achzib, and Helbah, and Aphik, and Rehob;
And the heart of the priest is glad, and he taketh the ephod, and the teraphim, and the graven image, and goeth into the midst of the people,
Wherefore now return, and go in peace, that thou displease not the lords of the Philistines.
And to Jesus through whom the new agreement hast been made between God and man, and to the sign of the blood which says better things than Abel's blood.
Gideon sent messengers throughout all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, "Come down against Midian, and take before them the waters, as far as Beth Barah, even the Jordan!" So all the men of Ephraim were gathered together, and took the waters as far as Beth Barah, even the the Jordan.
He said to her, "Stand in the door of the tent, and if any man comes and inquires of you, and says, 'Is there any man here?' you shall say, 'No.'"
And Benjamin went forth against them out of Gibeah the second day, and again destroyed to the ground of the children of Israel eighteen thousand men: all these drew the sword.
And he had forty sons, and of them thirty grandsons, mounted upon seventy ass colts, and he judged Israel eight years:
For if the blood of bulls and of goats, and the ashes of a heifer sprinkling the unclean, sanctifieth to the purifying of the flesh:
He answered him: We came out from Beth-lehem Joda, and we are going to our home, which is on the side of the hill-country of Ephraim, from whence we went to Beth-lehem: and now we go to the house of God, and none will receive us under his roof:
But we desire earnestly that each one of you show the same diligence to the full assurance of hope unto the end:
And David said unto Ahimelech the priest, The king hath commanded me a business, and hath said unto me, Let no man know anything of the business whereabout I send thee, and what I have commanded thee: and I have appointed my servants to such and such a place.
And they give to Caleb Hebron, as Moses hath spoken, and he dispossesseth thence the three sons of Anak.
When David finished speaking these words to Saul, Saul said, "Is this your voice, my son David?" And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
Then Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and captain over them: and Jephthah uttered all his words before Jehovah in Mizpah.
So David came to Saul and entered his service. He loved him greatly and he became Saul's armor bearer.
and because of it he is obligated to offer sacrifices for sins for himself also, as well as for the people.
Now the Philistine came forward early and late, and he took his stand for forty days.
For they disciplined us for a few days according to what seemed appropriate to them, but he does so for our benefit, in order that we can have a share in his sanctification.
Then Jael went out, and meeting Barak going after Sisera, said to him, Come, and I will let you see the man you are searching for. So he came into her tent and saw, and there was Sisera outstretched dead with the tent-pin in his head.
Saul was thirty years old at the beginning of his reign, and he reigned forty-two years over Israel.
But seeing that Naas king of the children of Ammon was come against you, you said to me: Nay, but a king shall reign over us: whereas Jehovah your God was your king.
And Israel setteth liers-in-wait against Gibeah, round about,
And Saul said to David, Behold, my eldest daughter Merab, her will I give thee to wife; only be thou valiant for me, and fight Jehovah's battles. But Saul thought, My hand shall not be upon him, but the hand of the Philistines shall be upon him.
Saul was told that David had fled to Gath; and he sought no more again for him.
They chose new gods. Then war was in the gates. Was there a shield or spear seen among forty thousand in Israel?
The woman had a fattened calf in the house. She hurried and killed it; and she took dough, and kneaded it, and baked unleavened bread of it.
And the base of his spear was like a weaver's beam; and his spear's head weighed six hundred shekels of iron; and the shield-bearer went before him.
For when Moses had given all the rules of the law to the people, he took the blood of goats and young oxen, with water and red wool and hyssop, and put it on the book itself and on all the people,
So David and his men went to Keilah, and had a fight with the Philistines, and took away their cattle, and put them to the sword with great destruction. So David was the Saviour of the people of Keilah.
Take care to keep open house: because in this way some have had angels as their guests, without being conscious of it.
And Samuel took a sucking lamb, and offered it for a burnt-offering wholly unto Jehovah; and Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel; and Jehovah heard him.
And he said: Let me go, for there is a solemn sacrifice in the city, one of my brethren hath sent for me: and now if I have found favor in thy eyes, I will go quickly, and see my brethren. For this cause he came not to the king's table.
They sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath Jearim, saying, "The Philistines have brought back Yahweh's ark. Come down, and bring it up to yourselves."
So let all thine enemies perish, Jehovah! But let them that love him be as the rising of the sun in itself might. And the land had rest forty years.
Whose end is destruction; whose God is their belly; and whose glory is in their shame; who mind earthly things.
They said, "What one is there of the tribes of Israel who didn't come up to Yahweh to Mizpah?" Behold, no one came from Jabesh Gilead to the camp to the assembly.
And Jonathan made an attack on the armed force of the Philistines stationed at Gibeah; and news was given to the Philistines that the Hebrews were turned against them. And Saul had a horn sounded through all the land,
And when David came to Ziklag, he sent of the spoil unto the elders of Judah, even to his friends, saying, Behold, a present for you of the spoil of the enemies of Jehovah;
And God did so that night, and it was dry upon the fleece only, but on all the ground there was dew.
Now a summary of the things of which we are speaking , We have such a one high priest who hast sat down on right hand of the throne of the greatness in the heavens;
And as she was going on her way her husband admonished her to ask a field of her father. And as she sighed sitting on her ass, Caleb said to her: What aileth thee?
Gideon made an ephod out of it, and he put it in its village in Ophrah, and all Israel prostituted themselves to it there, and it became a snare to Gideon and his family.
Are there not enough unbalanced men about me, that you have let this person come and do such tricks before me? is such a man to come into my house?
She said to him, "Give me a blessing; because you have set me in the land of the South, give me also springs of water." Then Caleb gave her the upper springs and the lower springs.
And he cometh in unto the men of Succoth, and saith, `Lo Zebah and Zalmunna, with whom ye reproached me, saying, Is the hand of Zebah and Zalmunna now in thy hand that we give to thy men who wearied bread?'
And the man Elkanah goeth up, and all his house, to sacrifice to even Jehovah, the sacrifice of days, and his vow.
And when the ark of the Lord's agreement came into the tent-circle, all Israel gave a great cry, so that the earth was sounding with it.
And the men have not been desiring to hearken to him, and the man taketh hold on his concubine, and bringeth out unto them without, and they know her, and roll themselves upon her all the night, till the morning, and send her away in the ascending of the dawn;
and he taketh the people, and parteth them into three detachments, and layeth wait in a field, and looketh, and lo, the peoples are coming out from the city, and he riseth against them, and smiteth them.
For also our God a devouring fire.
Even though I myself might have faith in the flesh: if any other man hast reason to have faith in the flesh, I have more:
And she named the child Ichabod, saying, The glory is departed from Israel: because the ark of God was taken, and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
and having found a jawbone, even the jawbone of an ass which lay there, catching it up, be slew therewith a thousand men.
Now Samuel was serving before Yahweh, as a boy wearing a linen ephod.
And the lords of the Philistines passed on by hundreds and by thousands; and David and his men passed on in the rearward with Achish.
For a high priest such as this indeed is fitting for us, holy, innocent; undefiled, separated from sinners, and having become exalted above the heavens,
And Gideon said unto God, If thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said,
Judging a part in the shame of Christ to be better than all the wealth of Egypt; for he was looking forward to his reward.
Our brother Timothy hast been let out of prison; and if he comes here in a short time, he and I will come to you together.
For all things I have strength, in Christ's establishing me;
choosing rather to share ill treatment with God's people, than to enjoy pleasures of sin for a time;
Samuel did not see Saul again until the day of his death, but Samuel mourned over Saul, and Yahweh regretted that he made Saul king over Israel.
And God also repaid all the wickedness of the men of Shechem on their heads, and the curse of Jotham son of Jerub-Baal fell on them.
Not good is this thing which thou hast done; Jehovah liveth, but ye sons of death, in that ye have not watched over your lord, over the anointed of Jehovah; and now, see where the king's spear , and the cruse of water which at his bolster.'
for ye know that also afterwards, desiring to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, (for he found no place for repentance) although he sought it earnestly with tears.
And the messengers come to Gibeah of Saul, and speak the words in the ears of the people, and all the people lift up their voice and weep;
And then afterward David felt guilty, because he had cut the skirts of Saul's robe.
But he turned from the graven images that were by Gilgal, and said, I have a secret word unto thee, O king. And he said, Be silent! And all that stood by him went out from him.
and they turn before the men of Israel unto the way of the wilderness, and the battle hath followed them; and those who from the city are destroying them in their midst;
Of how much sorer punishment suppose ye, shall he be thought worthy, who hath trodden under foot the Son of God, and hath counted the blood of the covenant, wherewith he was sanctified, an the unholy thing, and hath done soul unto the Spirit of grace?
And all they of the land came to a wood; and there was honey upon the ground.
Zebulun destroyed not the inhabitants of Cetron, and Naalol: but the Chanaanite dwelt among them, and became their tributaries.
and the sons of Israel add to do the evil thing in the eyes of Jehovah; and Jehovah strengtheneth Eglon king of Moab against Israel, because that they have done the evil thing in the eyes of Jehovah;
All the people went to Gilgal, and there they made Saul king before Yahweh in Gilgal. There they offered sacrifices of peace-offerings before Yahweh; and there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced greatly.
So the wrath of Jehovah was burning against Israel, and he gave them up into the hands of Cushan-rishathaim, king of Mesopotamia; and the children of Israel were his servants for eight years.
And he saith unto them, `Look at me, and thus do; and lo, I am coming into the extremity of the camp -- and it hath been -- as I do so ye do;
The sin of the young men was very great before Yahweh; for the men despised the oblation of Yahweh.
The priest therefore gave him hallowed bread; for there was no bread there, but only the loaves of proposition, which had been taken away from before the face of Jehovah, that hot loaves might be set up.
and I have gone out after him, and smitten him, and delivered out of his mouth, and he riseth against me, and I have taken hold on his beard, and smitten him, and put him to death.
So taking victuals and trumpets according to their number, he established all the rest of the multitude to depart to their tents: and he with the three hundred gave himself to the battle. Now the camp of Madian was under him in the valley.
Then Doeg the Edomite, who stood by the servants of Saul, answered and said, "I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.
Some out of love, knowing that I am set for the defence of the gospel.
And Saul is afraid of the presence of David, for Jehovah hath been with him, and from Saul He hath turned aside;
And Gideon saith unto him, `O, my lord -- and even Jehovah, is with us! -- and why hath all this found us? and where all His wonders which our fathers recounted to us, saying, Hath not Jehovah brought us up out of Egypt? and now Jehovah hath left us, and doth give us into the hand of Midian.'
And the man Micah had a house of gods; and he made an ephod and family gods and put one of his sons in the position of priest.
And he made an attack on them, driving them in uncontrolled flight, and causing great destruction; then he went away to his safe place in the crack of the rock at Etam.
And there ran a man of Benjamin out of the army, and came to Silo the same day, with his clothes rent, and his head strewed with dust.
May Yahweh judge between me and you and may Yahweh avenge me on you, but my hand will not be against you!
Only because of the generations of the children of Israel, for the purpose of teaching them war--only those who up till then had no experience of it;
And David said to Saul, Why dost thou listen to words of men, saying, Behold, David seeks thy hurt?
for your contribution to the good news from the first day till now,
And it came to pass, when the spirit from God was upon Saul, that David took the harp and played with his hand; and Saul was refreshed, and was well, and the evil spirit departed from him.
and to the noise of a trumpet, and to the sound of words which those who heard asked for that not another word be spoken to them.
Remember your leaders, who spoke the word of God to you; considering the outcome of their way of life, imitate their faith.
And he dwelt in the mountain Hares, that is, of potsherds, in Aialon and Salebim. And the hand of the house of Joseph was heavy upon him, and he became tributary to him.
And all the elders of Israel gather themselves together, and come in unto Samuel to Ramath,
And the king of the children of Ammon said to the men sent by Jephthah, Because Israel, when he came up out of Egypt, took away my land, from the the Arnon as far as the Jabbok and as far as the Jordan: so now, give me back those lands quietly.
She fastened it with the pin and said to him, "The Philistines are upon you, Samson!" And Samson woke up from his sleep and tore loose the loom pin of the web and the warp-threads.
Therefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people through his own blood, suffered outside of the gate.
And the woman said to him: Whom shall I bring up to thee? And he said, Bring me up Samuel.
those who make war against Jehovah will be broken; against them he will send his thunder out of heaven: Jehovah will be judge of the ends of the earth, he will give strength to his king, lifting up the horn of him on whom the holy oil hast been put.
And God did that night as he had requested: and it was dry on the fleece only, and there was dew on all the ground.
Then Abimelech went up to Mount Zalmon, with all his people; and Abimelech took an axe in his hand and, cutting down branches of trees, took them and put them on his back. And he said to the people who were with him, Be living and do as you have seen me do.
But a certain terrible expectation of justice, and the rage of a fire which shall consume the adversaries.
And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart greatly trembled.
And they said to him, Inquire, we pray thee, of God, that we may know whether our way on which we go shall be prosperous.
and David putteth forth his hand unto the vessel, and taketh thence a stone, and slingeth, and smiteth the Philistine on his forehead, and the stone sinketh into his forehead, and he falleth on his face to the earth.
But Adoni-zedek went in flight; and they went after him and overtook him, and had his thumb and his great toe cut off.
But his father and his mother didn't know that it was of Yahweh; for he sought an occasion against the Philistines. Now at that time the Philistines ruled over Israel.
And he said to them, Keep your eyes on me, and do what I do: when I come to the outer line of tents, whatever I do, you are to do the same.
But the rulers of the Philistines were angry with him, and said to him, Make the man go back to the place you have given him; do not let him go down with us to the fight, or he may be turned against us and be false to us; for how will this man make peace with his lord? will it not be with the heads of these men?
And one of the servants answereth and saith, `Lo, I have seen a son of Jesse the Beth-Lehemite, skilful in playing, and a mighty worthy man, and a man of battle, and intelligent in word, and a man of ordinance concerning them; and he even Jehovah, with him.'
And they captured the two commanders of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb, and they killed Oreb at the rock of Oreb and they killed Zeeb at the wine winepress of Zeeb, while they chased Midian: and they brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to Gideon from beyond the Jordan.
If he says, It is well, your servant will be at peace: but if he is angry, then it will be clear to you that he hast an evil purpose in mind against me.
Judah said to Simeon his brother, "Come up with me into my lot, that we may fight against the Canaanites; and I likewise will go with you into your lot." So Simeon went with him.
Wherefore Jehovah, the God of Israel, saith, I said indeed that thy house, and the house of thy father, should walk before me for ever: but now Jehovah saith, Be it far from me; for them that honor me I will honor, and they that despise me shall be easily esteemed.
or else he must have suffered often since the foundation of the world. But now once at the end of the generations for ever and ever. he hast been revealed to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.
Jehovah putteth to death, and keepeth alive, He bringeth down to Sheol, and bringeth up.
For we have not a high priest, who can not have compassion on our infirmity: but one tempted in all things like as we are, without sin.
And Saul drew near to Samuel in the midst of the gate, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, where the seer's house is.
And these the nations which Jehovah left, to try Israel by them, all who have not known all the wars of Canaan;
For ye have not come to [the mount] that might be touched and was all on fire, and to obscurity and darkness, and tempest,
And he saith unto him, `We are passing over from Beth-Lehem-Judah unto the sides of the hill-country of Ephraim -- thence I , and I go unto Beth-Lehem-Judah; and to the house of Jehovah I am going, and there is no man gathering me into the house,
And Jonathan said to David, Go in peace, forasmuch as we have both of us sworn in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever! And he arose and departed, having and Jonathan went into the city.
He did valiantly, and struck the Amalekites, and delivered Israel out of the hands of those who plundered them.
And they turned thitherward, and came to the house of young man the Levite, even unto the house of Micah, and saluted him.
But Samson lay until the middle of the night; he bought up in the middle of the night and took hold of the doors of the city gate and the two thresholds, tore them loose with the bar, put them on his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of the mountain that is in before Hebron.
Behold, the days come, that I will cut off your arm, and the arm of your father's house, that there will not be an old man in your house.
Then the Ziphites came up to Gibeah to see Saul, and said, Is not David living secretly among us in the strong places in Horesh, in the hill of Hachilah to the south of the waste land?
And she said unto him, My father, if thou hast opened thy mouth unto Jehovah, do to me according to that which hath proceeded out of thy mouth, forasmuch as Jehovah hath taken vengeance for thee of thine enemies, even of the children of Ammon.
By the voice of shouters Between the places of drawing water, There they give out righteous acts of Jehovah, Righteous acts of His villages in Israel, Then ruled in the gates have the people of Jehovah.
Pray for us, for we are reproved that we have a good conscience and want to conduct ourselves commendably in every way.
As soon as you come into the city, you shall immediately find him, before he go up to the high place to eat: for the people will not eat till he come; because he blesseth the victim, and afterwards they eat that are invited. Now therefore go up, for to-day you shall find him.
Whither the forerunner is for us entered, even Jesus, made an high priest for ever after the order of Melchisedec.
And their sins and iniquities I will remember no more.
Then Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went to seek David and his men on the rocks of the wild goats.
that even Jehovah, sendeth a man, a prophet, unto the sons of Israel, and he saith to them, `Thus said Jehovah, the God of Israel, I -- I have brought you up out of Egypt, and I bring you out from a house of servants,
I thank my God whenever I remember you,
And Saul sent officers to seize David: and it was answered that he was sick.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
And Samuel said to all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened to your voice in all that ye said to me, and have made a king over you.
And he that brought the news answered, and said: Israel hast fled before the Philistines, and there hast been a great slaughter of the people; moreover thy two sons, Ophni and Phinees, died; and the ark of God is taken.
Ehud made for himself a short, two-edged sword (the cubit in length), and he fasteneth it under his clothes on his right thigh.
And he said unto them, What have I done in comparison with you? Is not that which Ephraim took up after the grape-cutting better than all the grapes which Abiezer gathered in from the grape-cutting?
He went from there to Penuel, and he spoke similarly to them; and the men of Penuel answered him just as the men of Succoth answered.
The princes of Issachar were with Deborah. As was Issachar, so was Barak. They rushed into the valley at his feet. By the watercourses of Reuben, there were great resolves of heart.
Then Jonathan said to him, "Tomorrow is the new moon, and you will be missed, for your seat will stay empty.
And Jehovah sent you on a journey and said, Go and put to the curse those sinners, the Amalekites, fighting against them till every one is dead.
Then Gideon built an altar there to Yahweh, and called it "Yahweh is Peace." To this day it is still in Ophrah of the Abiezrites.
Who is made not according to the law of a carnal commandment, but according to the power of an indissoluble life:
Then said Zebul to him, Where is now thy mouth, thou that saidst, Who is Abimelech, that we should serve him? is not this the people that thou hast despised? go out now, I pray, and fight against them.
Now the men of Israel were hard pressed on that day, because Saul had made the army take an oath, saying, "Cursed be the man who eats any food until evening, when I will have avenged myself on my enemies!" So none of the army tasted any food.
For they that say these things, do signify that they seek a country.
And he sent through all Manasseh, and they came after him; and he sent to Asher and Zebulun and Naphtali, and they came up and were joined to the others.
And Samson was there till the middle of the night; then he bought up, and took a grip on the doors of the village, casting them up, together with their two supports and their locks, and put them on his back and took them up to the top of the mountain in before Hebron.
But solid food is for those who are full grown, who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern good and evil.
And Samson said, With a red ass's mouth-bone I have made them red with blood, with a red ass's mouth-bone I have sent destruction on a thousand men.
A champion out of the camp of the Philistines named Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span went out.
A man who hast gone against the law of Moses is put to death without pity on the word of two or three witnesses:
And it cometh to pass on the morrow, that the Philistines come to strip the wounded, and they find Saul and his three sons fallen on mount Gilboa,
Now the men of Israel had sworn in Mizpeh, saying, There shall not any of us give his daughter unto Benjamin to wife.
And Israel and the Philistines put the battle in array, rank against rank.
The men of Israel, besides Benjamin, were numbered four hundred thousand men who drew sword. All these were men of war.
They took that which Micah had made, and the priest whom he had, and came to Laish, to a people quiet and unsuspecting, and smote them with the edge of the sword; then they burned the city with fire.
Therefore it was necessary for the sketches of the things in heaven to be purified with these sacrifices, but the heavenly things themselves to be purified with better sacrifices than these.
In the same way, you also rejoice, and rejoice with me.
And Yahweh will also give Israel with you into the hands of the Philistines, and tomorrow you and your sons will be with me, and Yahweh will also give the army of Israel into the hand of the Philistines."
Then he fled and avoided them and dwelt in the land of Tob: and there were gathered to him needy men, and robbers, and they followed him as their prince.
by the new and living way which he inaugurated for us through the curtain, that is, his flesh,
And she fell at his feet, and said: Upon me let this iniquity be, my lord: let thy handmaid speak, I beseech thee, in thy ears: and hear the words of thy servant.
And said to him, This is the word of Jephthah: Israel did not take away the land of Moab or the land of the children of Ammon;
because to you it was granted, on behalf of Christ, not only to believe in him, but also on behalf of him to suffer;
And Saul said to him, whose son art thou, young man? And David said, I am the son of thy servant Jesse the Beth-lehemite.
but exhort one another day by day, so long as it is called "today"; lest any one of you be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin.
So Samuel brought near all the tribes of Israel, and the tribe of Benjamin was selected by lot.
And he said unto her, Up, and let us be going. But none answered. Then the man took her up upon an ass, and the man rose up, and gat him unto his place.
And Saul said: Speak thus to David: The king desireth not any dowry, but only a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be avenged of the king's enemies. Now Saul thought to deliver David into the hands of the Philistines.
Now the men of Israel had sworn in Mizpah, saying, "None of us will give his daughter to Benjamin as a wife."
Now David had spoken to the men who were standing with him, saying, "What will be done for the man who defeats this Philistine and removes the disgrace from Israel? For who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he defies the battle lines of the living God?"
Then he said to Zebah and Zalmunna, "What kind of men were they whom you killed at Tabor?" They answered, "They were like you. Each one resembled the children of a king."
And as Samuel turned about to go away, he laid hold upon the skirt of his robe, and it rent.
And Jael came out to meet Sisera, and she said to him, "Turn aside, my lord; turn aside to me and do not be afraid." So he turned aside into its tent, and she covered him with a blanket.
And you are to make no agreement with the people of this land; you are to see that their altars are broken down: but you have not given ear to my voice: what have you done?
And Saul seeth and knoweth that even Jehovah, with David, and Michal the daughter of Saul hath loved him,
And God listened to the voice of Manoah, and an angel of God came again to the woman; she was sitting in the field, but Manoah her husband was not with her.
But Samson's wife was given to his companion, whom he had used as his friend.
So they sent and gathered all the rulers of the Philistines to them, and they asked, "What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel?" And they said, "Let the ark of the God of Israel be brought around toward Gath." So they moved the ark of the God of Israel to Gath.
For God is my witness, how greatly I long after you all in the heart of Jesus Christ.
"Please speak in the ears of all the men of Shechem, 'Is it better for you that all the sons of Jerubbaal, who are seventy persons, rule over you, or that one rule over you?' Remember also that I am your bone and your flesh."
Paul and Timothy, bondmen of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are in Philippi, with overseers and ministers;
For he testifieth: Thou art a priest for ever, according to the ordinance of Melchisedech.
For such a high priest was fitting for us: holy, guiltless, undefiled, separated from sinners, and made higher than the heavens;
And the priest said, The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom thou slewest in the valley of terebinths, behold, it is here wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod; if thou wilt take that, take it; for there is no other save that here. And David said, There is none like that: give it me.
by faith he kept the passover, and the sprinkling of the blood, that He who is destroying the first-born might not touch them.
When Saul sent messengers to take David, she said, "He is sick."
For we have become partners of Christ, if indeed we hold fast the beginning of our commitment steadfast until the end,
Jonathan called to David and told him all of these words. Then Jonathan brought David to Saul and he was before him as formerly.
Now therefore, please listen also to the voice of your servant, and let me set a morsel of bread before you. Eat, that you may have strength, when you go on your way."
Cast not away therefore your confidence, which hath great recompense of reward.
And there was a certain man of Ramathaim-zophim, of the hill-country of Ephraim, and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephrathite.
be mindful of those in bonds, as having been bound with them, of those maltreated, as also yourselves being in the body;
The children of Israel said to Samuel, "Don't stop crying to Yahweh our God for us, that he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines."
For he hast spoken somewhere about the seventh day in this way: "And God rested on the seventh day from all his works,"
And ye shall cry out in that day because of your king which ye shall have chosen you; and Jehovah will not hear you in that day.
Saul chose him three thousand men of Israel; whereof two thousand were with Saul in Michmash and in mount Beth-el, and a thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin: and the rest of the people he sent every man to his tent.
He will appoint for himself commanders of thousands and commanders of fifties, and those to do his lamp and to reap his harvest, and those to make weapons of war and the equipment for his chariots.
The man got up to go, but his father-in-law urged him, and he returned and spent the night there.
Wherefore Saul sent messengers unto Jesse, and said, Send me David thy son, which is with the sheep.
And he gathered an host, and smote the Amalekites, and delivered Israel out of the hands of them that despoil them.
And it came to pass when Gideon heard the telling of the dream and itself interpretation, that he worshipped. And he returned into the camp of Israel, and said, Arise; for Jehovah hath given into your hand the camp of Midian.
But the thing displeased Samuel, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
And it came to pass in that night, that Jehovah said to him, Arise, go down to the camp; for I have given it into thy hand.
And say this to my brother, May all be well for you; peace be to you and your house and all you have.
And Saul said, The Lord's blessing will be yours, for you have had pity on me.
Who hast no need to make offerings for sins every day, like those high priests, first for himself, and then for the people; because he did this once and for ever when he made an oblation of himself.
And when the men of the city arose early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal was broken down, and the Asherah was cut down that was by it, and the second bullock was offered up upon the altar that was built.
for God is not unrighteous to forget your work, and the labor of the love, that ye showed to His name, having ministered to the saints and ministering;
So Gideon and the three hundred men who were with him came to the outer line of tents, at the start of the middle watch, when the watchmen had only then taken their stations; and the horns were sounded and the vessels broken.
Now Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty man of valor, and he was the son of a prostitute. Gilead became the father of Jephthah.
Then the rulers of the Philistines said, What are these Hebrews doing here? And Achish said to the rulers of the Philistines, Is this not David, the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who hast been with me for a year or two, and I have never seen any wrong in him from the time when he came to me till now?
And he went on from there to Naioth in Ramah: and the Spirit of God came on him, and he went on, acting like a prophet, till he came to Naioth in Ramah.
But whereto we have attained, [let us] walk in the same steps.
And one of the sons of Ahimelech the son of Ahitub, named Abiathar, escaped, and fled after David.
Then they said, What is the trespass-offering which we shall return to him? And they said, Five golden hemorrhoids, and five golden mice, the number of the lords of the Philistines; for one plague is upon them all, and upon your lords.
And Samuel ministered before Jehovah, a boy girded with a linen ephod.
And his armour-bearer said to him, Do all that is in thy heart; turn thee; behold, I am with thee according to thy heart.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Cariathiarim, speaking: The Philistines have brought back the ark of Jehovah, come ye down and fetch it up to you.
And David saith, `Ye do not do so, my brethren, with that which Jehovah hath given to us, and He doth preserve us, and doth give the troop which cometh against us into our hand;
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing. for thou hast given me a south land; give me also springs of water. And Caleb gave her the upper springs and the nether springs.
Then all the responsible men of Israel got together and went to Samuel at Ramah,
but Christ is faithful as a Son over his house; whose house we are, if we hold fast our confidence and the glorying of our hope firm to the end.
Now the first agreement had itself rules of worship, and a holy order.
Then David said to Jonathan, Who will give me word if your father gives you a rough answer?
Pursue peace with everyone, and holiness, without which no one will see Jehovah.
Wandering in waste places and in mountains and in caves in the rocks; for whom the world was not good enough.
That this shall be no grief unto thee, nor stumbling-block of heart unto my lord, either that thou hast shed blood causeless, or that my lord hath avenged himself; but when Jehovah shall have dealt well with my lord, then remember thy handmaid.
And David consulted Jehovah, speaking: Shall I pursue after these robbers, and shall I overtake them, or not? And Jehovah said to him: Pursue after them: for thou shalt surely overtake them and recover the prey.
The feet of His saints He keepeth, And the wicked in darkness are silent, For not by power doth man become mighty.
(Now the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel had gone up to Mizpah.) The children of Israel said, "Tell us, how did this wickedness happen?"
So her husband set out, and he went after her to speak tenderly to her, to bring her back. He took with him his servant and a pair of donkeys. And she brought him to her father's house, and the father of the young woman saw him and was glad to meet him.
And inasmuch as not without an oath he was made priest:
And when David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, Blessed be Jehovah, that hath pleaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and hath kept his servant from evil: for Jehovah hath returned the wickedness of Nabal upon his own head. And David sent and communed with Abigail, to take her to him to wife.
And Ahijah the son of Ahitub, Ichabod's brother, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eli, Jehovah's priest in Shiloh, wore the ephod.) And the people did not know that Jonathan was gone.
And he caught a youth of the men of Succoth, and learned of him; and he wrote down for him the chief men of Succoth, and the elders thereof, seventy-seven men.
And when Jehovah raised them up judges, then Jehovah was with the judge, and delivered them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge: for it repented Jehovah because of their groanings by reason of them that oppressed them and vexed them.
and Ahiah, the son of Ahitub, brother of Ichabod, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eli, the priest of Jehovah in Shiloh, who had the ephod. And the people had no idea that Jonathan had gone.
For finding trespass, he says to them, Behold, days come, saith Jehovah, and I will consummate a new covenant as regards the house of Israel, and as regards the house of Judah;
but exhort ye one another every day, while the To-day is called, that none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin,
But also thou shalt not cut off thy kindness from my house for ever: no, not when Jehovah hath cut off the enemies of David every one from the face of the earth.
Then all the children of Israel went out and gathered together as one man from Dan to Bersabee, with the land of Galaad, to Jehovah in Maspha:
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Why askest thou thus after my name, seeing it is secret?
While Israel dwelt in Heshbon and its towns, and in Aroer and its towns, and in all the cities that are along by the borders of the Arnon, three hundred years? why therefore did ye not recover them within that time?
Here is my daughter a virgin, and his concubine; them I will bring out now, and humble ye them, and do with them what seemeth good unto you: but unto this man do not so vile a thing.
Give words of love to every one in Christ Jesus. The brothers who are with me send you their love.
Samson said to them, "If you want to behave like this, I swear I will not rest unless I have taken revenge on you."
He said to his servant, "Run, please find the arrows that I am shooting!" The boy ran, and he shot the arrow to pass over him.
And Saul spoke to Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that they should slay David.
Let your modesty be known to all men. Jehovah is at hand.
However Sisera fled away on his feet to the tent of Jael the wife of Heber the Kenite; for there was peace between Jabin the king of Hazor and the house of Heber the Kenite.
And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, and were drawn away from the city, and began to smite of the people, slaying as at the former times, in the highways, of which one leads to Beth-el and the other to Gibeah in the field, about thirty men of Israel.
Where your fathers tempted me, Proved and saw my works,
And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, saying, What shall we do to the ark of Jehovah? tell us wherewith we shall send it to his place.
Ehud came to him; and he was sitting by himself alone in the cool upper place. Ehud said, "I have a message from God to you." He arose out of his seat.
And call to your remembrance the former days, in who, having been enlightened, ye did endure much conflict of sufferings,
By faith Rahab the prostitute did not perish with those who were disobedient, because she welcomed the spies in peace.
But the triumpher in Israel will revel spare, and will not be moved unto repentance; for he is not a mail that he should repent.
And Saul said to his servant, But if we go, what shall we bring the man? for the bread is spent in our vessels, and we have no present to give to the man of God: what have we?
The trees set out to anoint a king over themselves. They said to the olive-tree, 'Reign over us.'
to those who were in Aroer, to those who were in Siphmoth, to those who were in Eshtemoa
And Saul said to Samuel, I have sinned, for I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and thy words; for I feared the people, and hearkened to their voice.
So let all thine enemies perish, O Jehovah: but let them that love him be as the sun when he goeth forth in his might. And the land had rest forty years.
And they came to their brethren at Zoreah and Eshtaol. And their brethren said to them, What ye?
Saul and all the people who were with him were gathered together, and came to the battle; and behold, they were all striking each other with their swords in very great confusion.
Is it not now the time of the grain cutting? My cry will go up to Jehovah and he will send thunder and rain; so that you may see and be conscious of your great sin which you have done in the eyes of Jehovah in asking a king for yourselves.
Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity; therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows.
for by one offering he hath perfected to the end those sanctified;
And Gedeon seeing that it was the angel of Jehovah, said: Alas, my Lord Jehovah: for I have seen the angel of Jehovah face to face.
that they say to him, `Say, I pray thee, Shibboleth;' and he saith, `Sibboleth,' and is not prepared to speak right -- and they seize him, and slaughter him at the passages of the Jordan, and there fall at that time, of Ephraim, forty and two chiefs.
So David fled, and escaped, and came to Samuel to Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt in Naioth.
If a man sins against a man, then God can intercede for him. But if a man sins against Yahweh, who can intercede for him?" but they did not obey their father, because Yahweh wanted to kill them.
Then Saul said to David, "Blessed are you, my son David; you will not only do many things, but also will always succeed!" Then David went on his way and Saul returned to his place.
Seeing, then, the children have partaken of flesh and blood, he himself also in like manner did take part of the same, that through death he might destroy him having the power of death -- that is, the devil --
And to them that were in Aroer and that were in Sephamoth, and that were in Esthamo,
Then he said to David, "You are more righteous than I, for you have repaid me the good, but I have repaid you the evil.
those things, which ye have both learned, and receive, and heard, and seen in me, do: and the God of peace shall be with you.
And David leaving the vessels which he had brought, under the care of the keeper of the baggage, ran to the place of the battle and asked if all things went well with his brethren.
I sent him therefore the more carefully, that, when ye see him again, ye may rejoice, and that I may be less sorrowful.
When Gaal saw the people, he said to Zebul, "Behold, people are coming down from the tops of the mountains." Zebul said to him, "You see the shadow of the mountains as if they were men."
When the men of Israel saw the danger they were in, (for the people were troubled,) they took cover in cracks in the hillsides and in the woods and in rocks and caves and hollows.
David spoke to the men who stood by him, saying, "What shall be done to the man who kills this Philistine, and takes away the reproach from Israel? For who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the armies of the living God?"
by faith Moses, having become great, did refuse to be called a son of the daughter of Pharaoh,
but if to live in flesh [is my lot], this is for me for the while: and what I shall choose I cannot tell.
And David said to Saul, Who am I, Rabbi? and what is my life, my father's family in Israel, that I should be son-in-law to the king?
But if I say this to the boy, 'Behold, the arrows are beyond you;' then go your way; for Yahweh hast sent you away.
Give words of love from me to those who are rulers over you, and to all the saints. those who are in Italy send you their love.
And the Philistine said to David, Come to me, and I will give thy flesh to the birds of the heavens and to the beasts of the field.
And Gideon made an ephod of them, and put it in his city, in Ophrah. And all Israel went thither the harlot after it; and it became a snare to Gideon, and to his house.
And he bought directions from Jehovah for him, and gave him food, and put in his hand the sword of Goliath the Philistine.
neither man nor woman doth David keep alive, to bring in to Gath, saying, `Lest they declare against us, saying, Thus hath David done, and thus his custom all the days that he hath dwelt in the fields of the Philistines.'
When the words were heard that David spoke, they rehearsed them before Saul; and he sent for him.
Let us therefore, as many as are perfect, think this way. If in anything you think ye do, God will also reveal that to you.
For both he that sanctifies and those sanctified all of one; for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren,
and could set free these who through fear of death were subject to slavery throughout all their lives.
She reached out her hand to the peg, and her right hand for the workman's hammer; and she struck Sisera, crushed his head, and she shattered and pierced his temple.
And he said to them: I will not rule over you, neither shall my son rule over you, but Jehovah shall rule over you.
And the woman made haste, and ran, and showed her husband, and said unto him, Behold, the man hath appeared unto me, that came unto me the other day.
For when every commandment had been spoken by Moses to all the people according to the law, he took the blood of calves with water and scarlet wool and hyssop and sprinkled both the scroll itself and all the people,
And Gideon son of Joash died in a good old age, and he was buried in the tomb of Jehoash his father, in Ophrah of the Abiezrites.
And it hath come to pass, in the spirit of [sadness from] God being on Saul, that David hath taken the harp and played with his hand, and Saul hath refreshment and gladness, and the spirit of sadness hath turned aside from off him.
of how much worse punishment think ye, shall he be judged worthy who hast trodden under foot the Son of God, and esteemed the blood of the covenant, whereby he hast been sanctified, common, and hast insulted the Spirit of grace?
And after Abimelech, there rose up to save Israel Tola the son of Puah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar: and he dwelt in Shamir on mount Ephraim.
And it cometh to pass on the morrow, that the people rise early, and build there an altar, and cause to ascend burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
Now faith is the realization of what is hoped for, the proof of things not seen.
For both he that sanctifieth and they who are sanctified are all of one: for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren,
And he smote them hip and thigh with a great slaughter: and he went down and dwelt in the top of the rock Etam.
and it cometh to pass after they have brought it round, that the hand of Jehovah is against the city -- a very great destruction, And He smiteth the men of the city, from small even unto the great; and break forth on them do emerods.
And this shall be the sign to thee, which shall come upon thy two sons, upon Hophni and Phinehas. in one day they shall die, both of them.
Then opening the truth of the thing, he said to her: The razor hath never come upon my head, for I am a Nazirite, that is to say, consecrated to God from my mother's womb; if my head be shaven, my strength shall depart from me, and I shall become weak, and shall be like other men.
One that was wiser than the rest of his wives, returned this answer to her mother in law:
And of the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire.
And in nothing be ye terrified by the adversaries: which to them is a cause of perdition, but to you of salvation, and this from God:
However, some worthless men said, "How can this man deliver us?" So they despised him and brought no gift to him, but he kept silent.
At the sound of my horn, and the horns of those who are with me, let your horns be sounded all round the tents, and say, For Jehovah and for Gideon.
And it came to pass, when David and his men were come to Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekite had invaded the south, and Ziklag, and smitten Ziklag, and burned it with fire;
but thou dost not cut off thy kindness from my house unto the age, nor in Jehovah's cutting off the enemies of David, each one from off the face of the ground.'
And the cities, which the Philistines had taken from Israel, were restored to Israel, from Accaron to Geth, and their borders: and he delivered Israel from the hand of the Philistines, and there was peace between Israel and the Amorrhites.
Then he said, "I have sinned. Now please honor me before the elders of my people and before Israel, and return with me so that I can worship Yahweh your God."
So David's young men turned on their way, and went back, and came and told him all these words.
When his armor bearer saw that Saul was dead, he likewise fell on his sword, and died with him.
Now the men of Israel had sworn in Mizpah, saying, There shall not any of us give his daughter to the Benjaminites as wife.
And Saul knew David's voice, and said: Is this thy voice, my son David? And David said: It is my voice, my lord the king.
And being found in human ordinance concerning them; he humbled himself, becoming obedient to death, yes, the death of the cross.
And when Saul saw the Philistine army he was troubled, and his heart was moved with fear.
being made so much better than the angels, as he hath inherited a more excellent name than they.
She made him sleep on her knees; and she called for a man, and shaved off the seven locks of his head; and she began to afflict him, and his strength went from him.
And Samuel saith unto Saul, `Why hast thou troubled me, to bring me up?' And Saul saith, `I have great distress, and the Philistines are fighting against me, God hath turned aside from me, and hath not answered me any more, either by the hand of the prophets, or by dreams; and I call for thee to let me know what I do.'
And being feeble, he hast to make sin-offerings for himself as well as for the people.
For when every commandment of the law had been read by Moses to all the people, he took the blood of calves and goats, with water, and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people,
having become so much better than the angels, as he hast inherited a more excellent name than they have.
So they cut off his head and stripped off his armor. Then they sent messengers around in the land of the Philistines to proclaim victory in the temples of their idols and to the people.
Now the men of Ephraim came together and took up arms and went over to Zaphon; and they said to Jephthah, Why did you go over to make war against the children of Ammon without sending for us to go with you? Now we will put your house on fire over you.
and he told her all his heart, and said to her, There hast not come a razor upon my head; for I am a Nazirite of God from my mother's womb; if I should be shaven, then my strength would go from me, and I should be weak, and be like all mankind?
So then, get up by night, you and the army that is with you, and ambush in the field.
Then Yahweh's angel stretched out the end of the staff that was in his hand, and touched the food and the unleavened cakes; And fire went up out of the rock, and consumed the food and the unleavened cakes. Then Yahweh's angel departed out of his sight.
When the men of Israel saw that it was too difficult for them, because the army was hard pressed, the people hid themselves in the caves, in the thorn bushes, in the cliffs, in the vaults and in the wells.
So Jahel Haber's wife took a nail of the tent, and taking also a hammer: and going in softly, and with silence, she put the nail upon the temples of his head, and striking it With the hammer, drove it through his brain fast into the ground; and so passing from deep sleep to death, he fainted away and died.
Micah consecrated the Levite, and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
And the children of Israel went up and wept before Jehovah until even, and asked counsel of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go up again to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother? And Jehovah said, Go up against him.)
Then Saul built an altar to Yahweh; it was the first altar he built to Yahweh.
And God cleaveth the hollow place which in Lehi, and waters come out of it, and he drinketh, and his spirit cometh back, and he reviveth; therefore hath called itself name `The fountain of him who is calling,' which in Lehi unto this day.
And David arose and came to the place where Saul had encamped; and David beheld the place where Saul lay, and Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his host; and Saul lay within the wagon-defence, and the people were encamped round about him.
Therefore as many as are perfect, let us hold this opinion, and if you think anything differently, God will reveal this also to you.
And the cart came into the field of Joshua, a Bethshemite, and stood there, where there was a great stone; and they clave the wood of the cart, and offered the kine a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
At that time Deborah and Barak, the son of Abinoam, made this song, speaking:
The one point a pillar on the north opposite to Michmash and the other on the south opposite to Geba.
Having, then, a great chief priest passed through the heavens -- Jesus the Son of God -- may we hold fast the profession,
David said to Achish, "But what have I done? What have you found in your servant so long as I have been before you to this day, that I may not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?"
He will keep the feet of his saints, and the wicked shall be silent in darkness; for by strength shall no man prevail.
And the servants of Saul spoke all these words in the ears of David. And David said: Doth it seem to you a small matter to be the king's son in law? But I am a poor man, and of small ability.
And Saul said, Not a man is to be put to death today: for to-day Jehovah hast made Israel safe.
For the law, being only a poor copy of the future good things, and not the true image of those things, is never able to make the people who come to the altar every year with the same offerings completely clean.
She may not eat of anything that comes of the vine, neither let her drink wine or strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing. Let her observe all that I commanded her."
And he said to her, "Get up, let us go," but there was no answer. So he put her on the donkey, and the man got up and went to his place.
And when the Philistine arose and was coming, and drew nigh to meet David, David made haste, and ran to the fight to meet the Philistine.
Then Yahweh said to Samuel, "Listen to their voice, and appoint a king for them." So Samuel spoke to the men of Israel, "Each of you go to his own town."
And Gilead took the fords of the Jordan before Ephraim; and it came to pass that, when those of Ephraim said, Let me go over, the men of Gilead said to him, Art thou an Ephraimite? and he said, No.
You will invite Jesse to the sacrifice and I will make known to you what you must do. You will anoint for me the one whom I tell you."
And the servants of Achish said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? did they not sing one to another of him in dances, saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
Delilah said to Samson, "Behold, you have mocked me, and told me lies; now please tell me with which you might be bound."
and Adoni-Bezek saith, `Seventy kings -- their thumb and their great toe cut off -- have been gathering under my table. as I have done so hath God repaid to me;' and they bring him in to Jerusalem, and he dieth there.
For a man hast found his enemy but sent him on his way safely. Now may Yahweh reward you with good in return for this day, for what you have done for me.
And he made a great slaughter of them, so that in astonishment they laid the calf of the leg upon the thigh. And going down he dwelt in a cavern of the rock Etam.
And he said: With the jawbone of an ass, with the jaw of the colt of asses I have destroyed them, and have slain a thousand men.
According to my expectation and hope; that in nothing I shall be confounded, but with all boldness, as always, so now also shall Christ be magnified in my body, wither it be by life, or by death.
Now, brethren, I desire you should know, that the things which have happened to me, have fallen out rather to the furtherance of the gospel:
So the children of Israel gave up the worship of Baal and Astarte, and became worshippers of Jehovah only.
Saul dressed David with his clothing. He put a helmet of brass on his head, and he clad him with a coat of mail.
Do all things without murmurings and disputes,
And he said to her, Stand in the door of the tent, and it shall be if any one come and inquire of thee, and say, Is there any man here? that thou shalt say, No.
And Jonathan saith to him, `To-morrow new moon, and thou hast been looked after, for thy seat is looked after:
that day they overcame the Philistines from Michmash to Aijalon: and the people were feeble from need of food.
When the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead heard about it, what the Philistines had done to Saul,
But his quality is clear to you; how, as a child is to itself father, so he was a help to me in the work of the good news.
And it came to pass, when the judge was dead, that they returned, and corrupted themselves more than their fathers, in following other gods to serve them, and to bow down unto them; they ceased not from their own doings, nor from their stubborn way.
And behold, a certain woman casting an upper millstone from above, dashed it against the head of Abimelech, and broke his skull.
Then I said, 'Behold, I have come (in the scroll of the book it is written of me) to do your will, O God.'"
Then three thousand men of Judah went down to the cave in Etam's rock, and said to Samson, "Don't you know that the Philistines are rulers over us? What then is this that you have done to us?" He said to them, "As they did to me, so have I done to them."
The king said to her, "Do not be afraid! What do you see?" And the woman said to Saul, "I see a god coming up from the ground!"
And Abimelech, and the company that was with him, rushed forward, and stood at the entrance of the gate of the city: and the two other companies ran upon all the people that were in the fields, and slew them.
And David said to Saul, Your servant hast been keeper of his father's sheep; and if a lion or a bear came and took a lamb from the flock,
And the Spirit of Jehovah will come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shalt be turned into another man.
Achish believed David, saying, "He hast made his people Israel utterly to abhor him. Therefore he will be my servant forever."
And he beat down the tower of Penuel, and slew the men of the city.
But the growth of his hair was starting again after it had been cut off.
He said to him, "Don't be afraid; for the hand of Saul my father won't find you; and you will be king over Israel, and I will be next to you; and Saul my father knows that also."
that by two immutable things, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we may have a strong encouragement, who have fled for refuge to take hold of the hope set before us.
Your daughters also he will take to make him ointment, and to be his cooks, and bakers.
And David saith unto Jonathan, `Lo, the new moon to-morrow; and I do certainly sit with the king to eat; and thou hast sent me away, and I have been hidden in a field till the third eventide;
Then Jotham straight away went in flight to Beer, and was living there for fear of his brother Abimelech.
and he goeth into the house of his father at Ophrah, and slayeth his brethren, sons of Jerubbaal, seventy men, on one stone; and Jotham, youngest son of Jerubbaal, is left, for he was hidden.
and David sendeth spies, and knoweth that Saul hath come unto Nachon,
Eli said to her, "How long will you be drunk? Get rid of your wine!"
And it was so, that, when the children of Ammon made war against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to fetch Jephthah out of the land of Tob:
My heart to the lawgivers of Israel, Who are offering themselves willingly among the people, Bless ye Jehovah!
And they took two princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and they slew Oreb upon the rock Oreb and Zeeb they slew at the winepress of Zeeb; and they pursued Midian, and brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to Gideon beyond the Jordan.
and Jonathan strippeth himself of the upper robe which upon him, and giveth it to David, and his long robe, even unto his sword, and unto his bow, and unto his girdle.
Therefore let us fear, while there remains a promise of entering into his rest, that none of you appear to fall short of it.
And Micah said, "Now I know Yahweh will make me prosperous, because the Levite hast become my priest."
For yet "a very, very little while, and the one who is coming will come and will not delay.
Then Ahimelech answering said to the king, Who among all your servants is so true to you as David, who is the king's son-in-law, and is a captain of your armed men, and hast a place of honor in your house?
They turned aside there, and came to the house of young Levite man, even to the house of Micah, and asked him how he was doing.
The people of Beth Shemesh were reaping their wheat harvest in the valley; and they lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.
And the old man saith, `Peace to thee; only, all thy lack on me, only in the broad place lodge not.'
And Jonathan said: My father hath troubled the land: you have seen yourselves that my eyes are enlightened, because I tasted a little of this honey:
And the servant answered Saul again and said, Behold, I have here at hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver; that will I give to the man of God, to tell us our way.
But Jonathan answered his father Saul and said to him, "Why should he be put to death? What hast he done?"
Then the five men departed, and came to Laish, and saw the people who were there, how they lived in safety, in the way of the Sidonians; quiet and secure; for there was no one in the land, possessing authority, that might put them to shame in anything, and they were far from the Sidonians; and had no dealings with anyone else.
But if also I am poured out as a libation on the sacrifice and ministration of your faith, I rejoice, and rejoice in common with you all.
that ye may be harmless and simple, irreproachable children of God in the midst of a crooked and perverted generation; among whom ye appear as lights in world,
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, On this manner did David speak.
But I am hard pressed between the two options, having the desire to depart and to be with Christ, for this is very much good.
Moreover his mother made him a little robe, and brought it to him from year to year; when she came up with her husband to offer the yearly sacrifice.
So then, my brothers, being able to go into the holy place without fear, because of the blood of Jesus,
And he said, This will be the manner of the king that shall reign over you: He will take your sons, and appoint them for himself, for his chariots, and to be his horsemen, and some shall run before his chariots.
And he died, and was buried in Beth-lehem.
Now the sign fixed between the men of Israel and those making the surprise attack was that, when they made a pillar of smoke go up from the village,
And David lifteth up -- and the people who with him -- their voice and weep, till that they have no power to weep.
in which tempt Me did your fathers, they did prove Me, and saw My works forty years;
For the word of God is living and active, and worse than any two-edged sword, swift even to the dividing of soul and spirit, of both joints and marrow, and is able to discern the thoughts and intentions of heart.
They arose early; and about daybreak, Samuel called to Saul on the housetop, saying, "Get up, that I may send you away." Saul arose, and they both went outside, he and Samuel, together.
And the man departed from the city, from Bethlehem-Judah, to sojourn where he might find [a place]. And as he journeyed, he came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah.
And an evil spirit from Jehovah was upon Saul. And he sat in his house with his spear in his hand; and David played with his hand.
and to Hannah he giveth a certain portion -- double, for he hath loved Hannah, and Jehovah hath shut her womb;
Whereas he hath dwelt in Hesebon, and the towns thereof, and in Aroer, and itself villages, and in all the cities near the the Jordan, for three hundred years. Why have you for so long a time attempted nothing about this claim?
Be not hard of heart, as when you made me angry, on the day of testing in the waste land,
at the end of these days hast spoken to us in [the person of the] Son, whom he hast established heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds;
the universal gathering; and to assembly of the first-born [who are] registered in heaven; and to God, judge of all; and to spirits of just made perfect:
And when the flame went up toward the heaven from the altar, an angel of Yahweh went up in the flame of the altar to heaven while Manoah and his wife were watching. And they fell on their faces to the ground.
David left his baggage in the hand of the keeper of the baggage, and ran to the army, and came and greeted his brothers.
And Samson took hold of the two middle pillars upon which the house stood (and he supported himself upon them), the one with his right hand and the other with his left.
For I have no one else like-minded, who will truly care about you.
And thus she did every year, when the time returned that they went up to the temple of Jehovah; and thus she provoked her: but Anna wept, and did not eat.
Then Manoah said to the angel of Jehovah, What is your name, so that when your words come true we may give you honor?
And he said to him, "Far from it! You will not die! Look, my father does not do anything large or small unless he reveals it to me. Why should my father hide this thing or anything from me?"
Receive him therefore with all joy in Jehovah; and treat with honor such as he is.
And it came to pass when they saw him, that they brought thirty companions, and they were with him.
Then Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house to Gibeah of Saul.
And to Jesus the mediator of the new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling, that speaketh better things than that of Abel.
And David and his men went up and made attacks on Geshur and Girzites and the Amalekites; for these were the people who were living in the land from Telam on the way to Shur as far as Egypt.
Then he said, "I have sinned; yet please honor me now before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and come back with me, that I may worship Yahweh your God."
And the children of Ammon went over the Jordan, to make war against Judah and Benjamin and the house of Ephraim: and Israel was in great trouble.
No, my sons; for it is no good tidings that I hear! You make Yahweh's people disobey.
and all the evil of the men of Shechem hath God turned back on their head, and come unto them doth the cursing of Jotham son of Jerubbaal.
And at their first attack, Jonathan and his servant put to the sword about twenty men, all inside the space of half an acre of land.
And Jehovah defeated them before the children of Israel, and they slew of them in that day five and twenty thousand, and one hundred, all fighting men and that drew the sword.
And Jephthah sent messengers again unto the king of the children of Ammon;
And Samuel hath not yet known Jehovah, and the word of Jehovah is not yet revealed unto him.
So Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, "If you bring me back to fight against the children of Ammon, and Yahweh gives them over to me, will I be your head?"
Then he took the responsible men of the village and had them crushed on a bed of thorns and sharp stems.
Remember your prelates who have spoken the word of God to you; whose faith follow, considering the end of their conversation,
And three thousand men of Judah go down unto the hoof cloven of the rock Etam, and say to Samson, `Hast thou now known that the Philistines are rulers over us? and what this thou hast done to us?' And he saith to them, `As they did to me, so I did to them.'
Now when the Philistines heard that Israel had gathered at Mizpah, the rulers of the Philistines went up against Israel. And when Israel heard of it, they were afraid of the Philistines.
Jonathan therefore made a covenant with the house of David: and Jehovah required it at the hands of David's enemies.
Jehovah therefore left all these nations, and would not quickly destroy them, neither did he deliver them into the hands of Josue.
Yet he restored the money unto his mother; and his mother took two hundred shekels of silver, and gave them to the founder, who made thereof a graven image and a molten image; and they were in the house of Micah.
And the Levite was content to dwell with the man; and the young man was unto him as one of his sons.
While they were making merry and refreshing their bodies with food and drink, after the labor of the journey, the men of that city, sons fellow, (that is, without yoke,) came and beset the old man's house, and began to knock at the door, calling to the master of the house, and speaking: Bring forth the man that came into thy house, that we may abuse him.
Now Samuel didn't yet know Yahweh, neither was Yahweh's word yet revealed to him.
And Benjamin returned at that time, and they gave to them the women whom they kept alive from Jabesh-gilead; but they were not enough for them.
But you have come to the mountain of Zion, to the place of the living God, to the Jerusalem which is in heaven, and to an army of angels that may not be numbered,
For the rest, my brothers, be glad in Jehovah. Writing the same things to you is no trouble to me, and for you it is safe.
by faith Rahab the harlot did not perish with those who disbelieved, having received the spies with peace.
And then men of Cariathiarim came and fetched up the ark of Jehovah and carried it into the house of Abinadab in Gabaa: and they sanctified Eleazar his son, to keep the ark of Jehovah.
And it was so. And rising before day wringing the fleece, he filled a vessel with the dew.
Then Yahweh said to Samuel, "Listen to the voice of the people concerning all that they say to you; for they have not rejected you, but they have rejected me from being king over them.
and he findeth a fresh jaw-bone of an ass, and putteth forth his hand and taketh it, and smiteth with it -- a thousand men.
Because by one offering he hast made complete for ever those who are made holy.
For the word of God is living and full of power, and is worse than any two-edged sword, cutting through and making a division even of the soul and the spirit, the bones and the muscles, and quick to see the thoughts and purposes of heart.
and I have taken my bread, and my water, and my flesh, which I slaughtered for my shearers, and have given to men whom I have not known whence they !'
And they came to the foresaid hill, and behold, a company of prophets met him: and the spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he prophesied in the midst of them.
And David put his hand into the bag, and took thence a stone, and slang it, and smote the Philistine in his forehead, and the stone went down into his forehead; and he fell on his face to the earth.
So Saul sent his servants to Jesse and said, Send me your son David who is with the sheep.
Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel mourned for him, and buried him in Ramatha his city. And Saul had put away all the magicians and soothsayers out of the land.
In the days of Shamgar the son of Anath, in the days of Jael, The roads were unused, and the travellers on highways went by crooked paths.
All these came to their end in faith, not having had the heritage; but having seen it with delight far away, they gave witness that they were wanderers and not of the earth.
And Eli answered and said, Go in peace; and the God of Israel grant thee thy petition which thou hast asked of him.
Give ear to the women laughing by the water-springs; there they will give again the commentary of the upright acts of Jehovah, all the upright acts of his arm in Israel.
As you go from with me today, you will find two men near burial site of Rachel in the territory of Benjamin at Zelzah. They will say to you, 'The female donkeys that you went to search for have been found.' Now look, your father is no longer concerned about the female donkeys and hast begun worrying about you, saying, 'What should I do about my son?'
And she said to her father, "Let this thing be done for me: grant me two months so that I may go wander on the mountains and lament over my virginity; I and my companions.
Not as though I had already attained, either were already perfect: but I follow after, if that I may take that for which also I am taken of Christ Jesus.
And David heareth in the wilderness that Nabal is shearing his flock,
but now they seek a better, that is, a heavenly; wherefore God is not ashamed of them, to be called their God; for he hast prepared for them a city.
So the people took food in their hand, and their trumpets; and he sent all the men of Israel every man to his tent, but retained the three hundred men; and the camp of Midian was under him in the valley.
That we also may be like all the nations; and that our king may judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles.
Then in that night Saul sent men to David's house to keep watch on him so as to put him to death in the morning; and David's wife Michal said to him, If you do not go away to a safe place tonight you will be put to death in the morning.
And Samuel spoke to all the house of Israel, saying, "If with all your heart you are turning to Yahweh, remove the foreign gods and Ashtoreths from your midst. Commit your hearts to Yahweh and serve him alone. Then he will deliver you from the hand of the Philistines."
Then the lords of the Philistines brought up to her seven green withs which had not been dried up, and she bound him with them.
But if you are without instruction, of which all have been made partakers, then are you illegitimate, and not children.
how will we escape if we refuse so great a salvationwhich at the first having been spoken through Jehovah, was confirmed to us by those who heard,
they were stoned, they were sawn asunder, they were tried; in killing the sword they died; they went about in sheepskins, in goatskins -- being destitute, afflicted, injuriously treated,
And it cometh to pass, in those days, when there is no king in Israel, that there is a man a Levite, a sojourner in the sides of the hill-country of Ephraim, and he taketh to him a wife, a concubine, out of Beth-Lehem-Judah;
`And ye see that Nahash king of the Bene-Ammon hath come against you, and ye say to me, Nay, but a king doth reign over us; and Jehovah your God your king!
And it came to pass, when they saw him, that they brought thirty companions to be with him.
But the princes of the Philistines were angry with him, and they said to him: Let this man return, and abide in his place, which thou hast appointed him, and let him not go down with us to battle, lest he be an adversary to us, when we shall begin to fight: for how can he otherwise appease his master, but with our heads?
And she put him to sleep on her lap; then she called the men and shaved off seven locks of his head. Then she began to subdue him, and his strength went away from him.
And he stripped himself also of his garments, and prophesied with the rest before Samuel, and lay down naked all that day and night. This gave occasion to a proverb: What! is Saul too among the prophets?
And he said, Ye have taken away my gods which I made, and the priest, and ye are gone away; and what have I more? and what is this that ye say to me, What aileth thee?
Now Saul spoke to Jonathan his son and to all his servants about killing David, but Saul's son Jonathan took pleasure in David very much.
And the ark of God was taken: and the two sons of Heli, Ophni and Phinees, were slain.
David therefore arose in the morning, and gave the charge of the flock to the keeper: and went away loaded as Isai had commanded him. And he came to the place of Magala, and to the army, which was going out to fight, and shouted for the battle.
And her lord riseth in the morning, and openeth the doors of the house, and goeth out to go on his way, and lo, the woman, his concubine, is fallen at the opening of the house, and her hands on the threshold,
But as to which of the angels said he ever, Sit at my right hand until I put thine enemies footstool of thy feet?
And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and were sore afraid.
For indeed we have had good news preached to us, even as they also did, but the word they heard didn't profit them, because it wasn't mixed with faith by those who heard.
And the men of Judah said, "Why have you come up against us?" And they said, "To bind Samson; to do to him just as he did to us."
And David said to Saul, Who am I, and what is my father's family in Israel, that I am to be son-in-law to the king?
And I am confuted in Jehovah that I myself will arrive shortly also.
For to which of the angels did he ever say, "You are my son, to-day I have begotten you," and again, "I will be his father, and he will be my son"?
And the children of Benjamin coming out of Gabaa, slew of the children of Israel that day two and twenty thousand men.
For they all go after what is theirs, not after the things of Christ.
And when Jehovah shall have done to thee, my lord, all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and shall have made thee prince over Israel,
When the messengers came, to their surprise the idol was on the bed with the quilt of goat's hair at the head.
And Judah went against the Canaanites that dwelt in Hebronthe name of Hebron beforetime was Kirjath-Arba; and they slew Sheshai and Ahiman and Talmai.
And David saith unto Achish, `If, I pray thee, I have found favor in thine eyes, they give to me a place in one of the cities of the field, and I dwell there, yea, why doth thy servant dwell in the royal city with thee?'
And for this cause it is through him that a new agreement hast come into being, so that after the errors under the first agreement had been taken away by his death, the word of God might have effect for those who were marked out for an eternal heritage.
And Abimelech son of Jerub-Baal went to Shechem, to the relatives of his mother, and he said to them and to the house of his mother's father,
but emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, being made in the likeness of men.
And the Philistine said to David, Come to me, and I will give thy flesh unto the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the field.
We made a raid on the South of the Cherethites, and on that which belongs to Judah, and on the South of Caleb; and we burned Ziklag with fire."
And the house of Joseph, they also went up against Beth-el; and Jehovah was with them.
And Samuel lieth till the morning, and openeth the doors of the house of Jehovah, and Samuel is afraid of declaring the vision unto Eli.
and the uncle of Saul saith unto him, and unto his young man, `Whither went ye?' and he saith, `To seek asses therewith; and we see that they are not, and we come in unto Samuel.'
Answered: I came into Gabaa of Benjamin with my wife, and there I lodged:
Now the appointed time for the men of Israel with the ambush was that they sent up for them a great amount of smoke from the city.
What is it then? at any rate, in every way, whether in pretext or in truth, Christ is announced; and in this I rejoice, yea, also I will rejoice;
Thus saith Jephte: Israel did not take away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon;
And Achish in answer said, It is true that in my eyes you are good, like an angel of God: but still, the rulers of the Philistines have said, He is not to go up with us to the fight.
And David arose secretly, and came to the place where Saul was: and when he had beheld the place, wherein Saul slept, and Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his army, and Saul sleeping in a tent, and the rest of the multitude round about him,
And Abimelech rose up, and all the people that were with him, by night, and they lay ambush against Shechem in four companies.
Then David said to Saul, "Why do you listen to the words of people who say: 'Look, David is seeking to do you harm'?
And I will go out and take my place by my father's side in the field near where you are; and I will get into talk with my father about you, and when I see how things are, I will give you word.
Now there was a certain man of Ramathaim, a Zuphite of the hill-country of Ephraim, named Elkanah: he was the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephraimite:
But the king of the children of Ammon did not listen to the message that Jephthah sent to him.
And Judah went against the Canaanites that dwelt in Hebron: (now the name of Hebron beforetime was Kirjatharba:) and they slew Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai.
And he said unto them, What have I done now in comparison of you? Is not the gleaning of the grapes of Ephraim better than the vintage of Abiezer?
Now this man used to go up from his village year by year to worship and to sacrifice to Yahweh of hosts in Shiloh, where the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were priests to Yahweh.
For it is impossible that with the blood of oxen and goats sin should be taken away.
And he said, You have taken my gods which I made, and my priest, and have gone away; what is there for me now? Why then do you say to me, What is your trouble?
And also all that generation were gathered unto their fathers; and there arose another generation after them, who knew not Jehovah, nor yet the works which he had done for Israel.
And Zebah and Zalmunna in Karkor, and their camps with them, about fifteen thousand, all who are left of all the camp of the sons of the east; and those falling a hundred and twenty thousand men, drawing sword.
There is both straw and fodder for our donkeys, and also bread and wine for me, for your servant, and for the young man who is with your servant; there is no lack of anything."
for every chief priest to offer both gifts and sacrifices is appointed, whence [it is] necessary for this one to have something that he may offer:
Perhaps he is now distributing the spoils, and the fairest of the women is chosen out for him: garments of divers colors are given to Sisara for his prey, and furniture of different kinds is heaped together to adorn the necks.
And Jehovah said unto Gideon, The people that are with thee are too many for me to give the Midianites into their hands, lest Israel vaunt themselves against me, saying, Mine own hand hath saved me.
Then Samuel told all the words of Jehovah to the people that had desired a king of him,
So Jehovah let those nations go on living in the land, not driving them out quickly, and did not give them up into the hands of Joshua.
And he went to his father's house at Ophrah, and he killed his brothers, the sons of Jerub-Baal, seventy men, on one stone. But Jotham the youngest son of Jerub-Baal survived, because he hid himself.
And it was from that day forward; and he made it a statute and an ordinance for Israel to this day.
and she was in bitterness of soul, and prayed to Jehovah, and wept much.
They were already far from the house of Micah, when the men that were in the houses near to Micah's house were gathered together, and overtook the children of Dan.
And the people flew upon the spoil, and took sheep and oxen, and calves, and slew them on the ground; and the people did eat them with the blood.
And without all contradiction, that which is less, is blessed by the good.
And watching; and if the daughters of Shiloh come out to take part in the dances, then come from the vine-gardens and take a wife for every one of you from among the daughters of Shiloh, and go back to the land of Benjamin.
Then Gideon came to the Jordan and went over it with his three hundred overcome with weariness and in need of food.
And Gideon had threescore and ten sons of his body begotten: for he had many wives.
And the Philistines have been gathered to fight with Israel: thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and a people as the sand which on the sea-shore for multitude; and they come up and encamp in Michmash east of Beth-Aven.
And the hand of even Jehovah, is heavy on the Ashdodites, and He maketh them desolate, and smiteth them with emerods, Ashdod, and itself border.
In those days there was no king in Israel, but every man did that which was right in his own eyes.
But he called upon Jehovah, speaking: O Lord Jehovah, remember me, and restore to me now my former strength, O my God, that I may avenge myself on my enemies, and for the loss of my two eyes I may take one revenge.
And when Gedeon had heard the dream and the interpretation thereof, he adored: and returned to the camp of Israel, and said: Arise, for Jehovah hath delivered the camp of Madian into our hands.
And they took what Micah had made, and his priest, and they came to Laish, to a quiet and unsuspecting people, and they put them to the sword and burned the city with fire.
One division turned on the road to Beth Horon, and one turned on the road toward the border overlooking the valley of Zeboim toward the wilderness.
And David answered the priest, and said to him: Truly, as to what concerneth women, we have refrained ourselves from yesterday and the day before, when we came out, and the vessels of the young men were holy. Now this way is defiled, but it shall also be sanctified this day in the vessels.
For, Jehovah liveth, who hast saved Israel, though it be in Jonathan my son, he shall certainly die. And no one answered him among all the people.
I said, The Philistines will come down now upon me to Gilgal, and I have not made supplication to Jehovah; and I forced myself, and offered up the burnt-offering.
As soon as ye are come into the city, ye shall straightway find him, before he go up to the high place to eat: for the people will not eat until he come, because he doth bless the sacrifice; and afterwards they eat that are bidden. Now therefore get you up; for about this time ye shall find him.
And the angel of Jehovah put forth the end of the staff that was in his hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened cakes; and there rose up fire out of the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened cakes. And the angel of Jehovah departed out of his sight.
Now therefore, O king, come down according to all the desire of thy soul to come down; and our part shall be to deliver him into the king's hand.
But year by year there is a memory of sins in those offerings.
Then the children of Ammon were gathered together, and encamped in Gilead. And the children of Israel assembled themselves together, and encamped in Mizpah.
And he refuseth, and saith, `I do not eat;' and his servants press upon on him, and also the woman, and he hearkeneth to their voice, and riseth from the earth, and sitteth on the bed.
So Yahweh left those nations, without driving them out hastily. He didn't deliver them into Joshua's hand.
that your glorying may abound in Christ Jesus in me through my presence again to you.
if thus they say unto us, `Stand still till we have come unto you,' then we have stood in our place, and do not go up unto them;
and he said to him, "Thus says Jephthah: Israel didn't take away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon,
Why then didst thou not hearken to the voice of Jehovah, but didst fall upon the spoil, and didst evil in the sight of Jehovah?
And Saul heareth -- and all Israel -- these words of the Philistine, and they are broken down and greatly afraid.
And Ahinoam hath David taken from Jezreel, and they are -- even both of them -- to him for wives;
Blessed is your discretion, And blessed are you, who have kept me to-day from blood guiltiness, and from avenging myself with my own hand.
And the children of Israel cried to Jehovah; for he had nine hundred chariots set with scythes, and for twenty years had grievously oppressed them.
always in all my prayers making supplication for you all, with joy;
Then Saul and the men of Israel were gathered and encamped in the valley of Elah, and they formed ranks for the battle to meet the Philistines.
Now Yahweh had revealed this to Samuel the day before Saul arrived, saying,
And the servants of David come in unto Abigail at Carmel, and speak unto her, saying, `David hath sent us unto thee to take thee to him for a wife.'
And Saul said to his servant, Well said: come, let us go. So they went to the city where the man of God was.
Please, do not depart from here until I come back to you and bring out my gift and set it out before you." And he said, "I will stay until you return."
'Are they not finding and distributing the plunder? A bedmate or two bedmates for every man; colorful garments for Sisera, plunder of colorful garments, beautifully finished colorful garments, on the neck of the plunderer?'
and there is not a created thing not manifest before him, but all things naked and open to His eyes -- with whom is our reckoning.
And Abimelech fought against the city all that day; and he took the city, and slew the people that were therein, and beat down the city, and sowed it with salt.
And again the Israelites did evil in the sight of Yahweh. So Yahweh strengthened Eglon king of Moab against Israel, because they did evil in the sight of Yahweh.
It shall be, when their fathers or their brothers come to complain to us, that we will say to them, 'Grant them graciously to us, because we didn't take for each man his wife in battle, neither did you give them to them, otherwise you would now be guilty.'"
And the hand of Jehovah was heavy upon them of Ashdod, and he laid them waste, and smote them with hemorrhoids,Ashdod and itself border.
And he will take the tenth of your seed and of your vineyards, and give to his chamberlains and to his servants.
And he judged Israel twenty-three years. And he died and was buried in Shamir.
And all the children of Israel went forth, and the assembly gathered together as one man, from Dan to Beer-sheba, and the land of Gilead, unto Jehovah at Mizpah.
and David hath great distress, for the people have said to stone him, for the soul of all the people hath been bitter, each for his sons and for his daughters; and David doth strengthen himself in Jehovah his God.
And David said to Achis: Now thou shalt know what thy servant will do. And Achis said to David: And I will appoint thee to guard my life for ever.
become imitators together of me, brethren, and observe those thus walking, according as ye have us -- a pattern;
for consider again him who endured such gainsaying from the sinners to himself, that ye may not be wearied in your souls -- being faint.
and they give to him seventy silverings out of the house of Baal-Berith, and Abimelech hireth with them men, vain and unstable, and they go after him;
and that which is bearing thorns and briers disapproved of, and nigh to cursing, whose end for burning;
So that when he comes into the world, he says, You had no desire for offerings, but you made a body ready for me;
And the men of Israel and of Judah arose, and shouted, and pursued the Philistines, until thou come to the valley, and to the gates of Ekron. And the wounded of the Philistines fell down by the way to Shaaraim, even unto Gath, and unto Ekron.
and ye have seen, if the way of itself border it goeth up to Beth-Shemesh -- He hath done to us this great evil; and if not, then we have known that His hand hath not come against us; an accident it hath been to us.'
And David cried to the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Answerest thou not, Abner? Then Abner answered and said, Who art thou that criest to the king?
And when Jephte returned into Maspha to his house, his only daughter met him with timbrels and with dances: for he had no other children.
And there will be no need for every man to be teaching his brother, or his neighbor, saying, This is the knowledge of Jehovah; for they will all have knowledge of me, great and small.
And Ehud went out into the portico, and shut the doors of the upper-chamber upon him, and bolted them.
Then the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul, and spoke these words in the ears of the people, then all the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
So David and his men got up, about six hundred men, and went out from Keilah and wandered wherever they could go. When it was told to Saul that David had escaped from Keilah, he stopped his pursuit.
The men of the city said to him on the seventh day before the sun went down, "What is sweeter than honey? What is stronger than a lion?" And he said to them, "If you had not plowed with my heifer; you would not have found out my riddle."
for it is impossible for blood of bulls and goats to take away sins.
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up: behold, I have delivered the land into his hand.
And they turned and fled toward the wilderness unto the rock of Rimmon, and they gleaned of them in the highways five thousand men; and pursued hard after them unto Gidom, and slew two thousand men of them.
And make straight roads for your feet, so that the feeble may not be turned out of the way, but may be made strong.
Jehovah judge between me and thee, and Jehovah avenge me of thee; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
And they said, See, every year there is a feast of Jehovah in Shiloh, which is to the north of Beth-el, on the east side of the highway which goes up from Beth-el to Shechem, and on the south of Lebonah.
By faith, he left Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king; for he endured, as seeing him who is invisible.
and the men who have not died have been smitten with emerods, and the cry of the city goeth up into the heavens.
Now in those days, when there was no king in Israel, a certain Levite was living in the inmost parts of the hill-country of Ephraim, and he bought for himself a servant-wife from Beth-lehem-judah.
Then Nahash the Ammonite came up, and encamped against Jabeshgilead: and all the men of Jabesh said unto Nahash, Make a covenant with us, and we will serve thee.
He struck seventy men among the men of Beth Shemesh because they looked into the ark of Yahweh. So the people mourned because Yahweh had struck a great blow among the people.
So David and Abishai came to the people by night; and, behold, Saul lay sleeping within the place of the wagons, with his spear cleave in the ground at his head; and Abner and the people lay around him.
For we -- willfully sinning after the receiving the full knowledge of the truth -- no more for sins doth there remain a sacrifice,
Then the Philistines took the ark of God and brought it to the temple of Dagon and placed it besides Dagon.
Now of the things which we have spoken this is the sum: We have such a high priest, who is set on the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens;
But if you will not listen to Yahweh's voice, but rebel against the commandment of Yahweh, then Yahweh's hand shall be against you, as it was against your fathers.
So Gideon, and the hundred men who were with him, came to the outermost part of the camp in the beginning of the middle watch, when they had but newly set the with them. Then they blew the trumpets, and broke in pieces the pitchers that were in their hands.
Not like the agreement which I made with their fathers when I took them by the hand, to be their guide out of the land of Egypt; for they did not keep the agreement with me, and I gave them up, says Jehovah.
but we see Jesus, for a short season, made lower than God, because of the suffering of death crowned with glory and honor, so that apart from God he might taste death on behalf of everyone.
And Jehovah, the God of Israel, gave Sihon and all his people into the hands of Israel, and they overcame them; so all the land of the Amorites, the people of that land, became Israel's.
And Jonathan said to David: Whatsoever thy soul shall say to me, I will do for thee.
And then in the morning Jonathan went out to the field for the appointment with David, and a young boy was with him.
Though I might also have confidence in the flesh. If any other thinketh he may have confidence in the flesh, I more,
And Jehovah said to Gideon, Still the people are many; bring them down to the water, and I will try them for thee there, and it shall be, that of whom I shall say unto thee, This shall go with thee, the same shall go with thee; and of whomsoever I shall say unto thee, This shall not go with thee, the same shall not go.
They encompassed the Benjaminites, chased them, trod them down at the resting-place over against Gibeah toward the sun-rising.
And his concubine played the harlot against him, and went away from him to her father's house to Bethlehem-Judah, and was there some time,four months.
And Israel cried to Yahweh, as he had nine hundred iron chariots, and he oppressed Israel cruelly for twenty years.
By faith he abode in the land, dwelling in cottages, with Isaac and Jacob, the co-heirs of the same promise.
And the word of Samuel is to all Israel, and Israel goeth out to meet the Philistines for battle, and they encamp by Eben-Ezer, and the Philistines have encamped in Aphek,
And the old man said, "Peace to you. I will take care of your needs; however, you must not spend the night in the open square."
And at their words, the spirit of God came on Saul with power, and he became angry.
But David was the youngest. So the three eldest having followed Saul,
David went up from there and stayed in the strongholds of En Gedi.
So my brothers, well loved and very dear to me, my joy and crown, be strong in Jehovah, my loved ones.
For when the flame went up toward the heaven from off the altar, Yahweh's angel ascended in the flame of the altar. Manoah and his wife watched; and they fell on their faces to the ground.
For he was yet in the loins of his father, when Melchisedech met him.
And the messenger of God saith unto him, `Take the flesh and the unleavened things, and place on this rock -- and the broth pour out;' and he doth so.
So whenever the evil spirit from God came to Saul, David would take stringed instrument and play it with his hand. then it would bring relief for Saul; he would feel better and the evil spirit would depart from him.
By faith Abraham, been approved, offered up Isaac, and he who had received to himself the promises offered up his only begotten ,
who, being the outshining of his glory, the true image of his substance, supporting all things by the word of his power, having given himself as an offering making clean from sins, took his seat at the right hand of God in heaven;
The man went into the land of the Hittite, built a city, and called itself name Luz, which is itself name to this day.
Naphtali hath not dispossessed the inhabitants of Beth-Shemesh, and the inhabitants of Beth-Anath, and he dwelleth in the midst of the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land; and the inhabitants of Beth-Shemesh and of Beth-Anath have become tributary to them.
and of doing good, and of bargain, be not forgetful, for with such sacrifices God is well-pleased.
For here we do not have a permanent city, but we seek the city that is to come.
And you have made clear to me how good you have been to me today: because, when Jehovah gave me up into your hands, you did not put me to death.
and Saul threw the spear, for he said, "I will pin David even to the wall!" David escaped from his presence twice.
And God hearkeneth to the voice of Manoah, and the messenger of God cometh again unto the woman, and she sitting in a field, and Manoah her husband is not with her,
He said to him, "Do not be afraid, for the hand of my father Saul will not find you. You will be king over Israel, and I will be second to you. My father Saul knows this also."
for a sin of divination rebellion, and iniquity and teraphim stubbornness; because thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, He also doth reject thee from king.'
Then Zebah and Zalmunna said, Up! Put an end to us yourself: for you have a man's strength. Then Gideon got up and put Zebah and Zalmunna to death and took the ornaments which were on their camels' necks.
And they put the ark of Jehovah on the cart and the chest with the gold images.
Yahweh will shatter his adversaries; he will thunder against them in the heavens. Yahweh will judge the ends of the earth. He will give strength to his king and will exalt the might of his anointed one.
And David saith, `What have I done now? is it not a word?'
Gaal the son of Ebed came with his brothers, and went over to Shechem; and the men of Shechem take refuge in him.
So all the men of Israel got up and put themselves in fighting order at Baal-tamar: and those who had been waiting secretly to make a surprise attack came rushing out of their place on the west of Geba.
And Debbora said to Barac: Arise, for this is the day wherein Jehovah hath delivered Sisara into thy hands: behold, he is thy leader. And Barac went down from mount Thabor, and ten thousand fighting men with him.
And now, give up the men -- sons of worthlessness -- which in Gibeah, and we put them to death, and we put away the evil from Israel.' And [the sons of] Benjamin have not been desiring to hearken to the voice of their brethren, the sons of Israel;
Jehovah gives wealth and takes a man's goods from him: crushing men down and again lifting them up;
And let us be moving one another at all times to love and good works;
Do not so, my sons: for it is no good tidings that I hear, that you make the people of Jehovah to transgress.
So the priest gave him the holy bread; there was no other, only the holy bread which had been taken from before Jehovah, so that new bread might be put in itself place on the day when it was taken away.
And he saith to her, `What his form?' and she saith, `An aged man is coming up, and he covered with an upper robe;' and Saul knoweth that he Samuel, and boweth -- face to thee earth -- and doth obeisance.
Then on the day after, the people got up early and made an altar there, offering burned offerings and peace-offerings.
And the hand of Jehovah was heavy upon the Azotians, and he destroyed them, and afflicted Azotus and the borders thereof with emerods. And in the villages and fields in the midst of that country, there came forth a multitude of mice, and there was the confusion of a great what is mortal in the city.
And they rise and go up to Beth-El, and ask of God, and the sons of Israel say, `Who doth go up for us at the commencement to battle with the sons of Benjamin?' and Jehovah saith, `Judah -- at the commencement.'
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he delivered them into the hands of destroyers that plundered them, and he sold them into the hands of their enemies round about; and they could not any longer stand before their enemies.
All the men of Shechem assembled themselves together, and all the house of Millo, on the way and went and made Abimelech king, by the oak of the pillar that was in Shechem.
And all the men of Israel, when they saw him, went in flight, overcome with fear.
But he rising up began to be for departing. And nevertheless his father-in-law earnestly pressed him, and made him stay with him.
and play the harlot against him doth his concubine, and she goeth from him unto the house of her father, unto Beth-Lehem-Judah, and is there days -- four months.
She said, "Excuse me, my lord. As you live, my lord, I am woman who stood with you in this place to pray to Yahweh.
The Israelites did evil in the sight of Yahweh. They forgot Yahweh their God, and they served the Baals and the Asheroth.
And the golden mice, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five lords, both of fortified cities, and of country villages, even unto the great stone of Abel, whereon they set down the ark of Jehovah: which stone remaineth unto this day in the field of Joshua, the Bethshemite.
When thou shalt depart from me this day, thou shalt find two men by the sepulchre of Rachel in the borders of Benjamin to the south, and they shall say to thee: The asses are found which thou wentest to seek; and thy father thinking no more of the asses is concerned for you, and saith: What shall I do for my son?
And Saul gave orders to his son Jonathan and to all his servants to put David to death. But Saul's son Jonathan had great delight in David.
He offered the tribute to Eglon king of Moab. Now Eglon was a very fat man.
And the elders of Jabes said to him: Allow us seven days, that we may send messengers to all the borders of Israel: and if there be no one to defend us, we will come out to thee.
And the servants of David said to him: Behold, the day, of which Jehovah said to thee: I will deliver thy enemy unto thee, that thou mayest do to him as it shall seem good in thy eyes. Then David arose, and secretly cut off the skirts of Saul's robe.
And there went from thence of the family of the Danites, out of Zorah and out of Eshtaol, six hundred men appointed with weapons of war.
For I will be merciful to their unrighteousness. I will remember their sins and lawless works no more."
And Nabal answereth the servants of David and saith, `Who David, and who the son of Jesse? to-day have servants been multiplied who are breaking away each from his master;
And send for Jesse to be present at the thereof, and I will make clear to you what you are to do: and you are to put the holy oil on him whose name I give you.
I will go out and stand besides my father in the field where you are, and I will talk with my father about you; and if I see anything, I will tell you."
Now the asses of Saul's father Kish had gone wandering away. And Kish said to his son Saul, Take one of the servants with you, and get up and go in search of the asses.
They buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnah Heres, in the hill-country of Ephraim, on the north of the mountain of Gaash.
Yahweh do so to Jonathan, and more also, should it please my father to do you evil, if I don't disclose it to you, and send you away, that you may go in peace. May Yahweh be with you, as he hast been with my father.
What does it matter? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is proclaimed. I rejoice in this, yes, and will rejoice.
What will we do for themfor the ones being left overfor women? For we have sworn by Yahweh not to give to them our daughters as wives."
And it happened, when he finished speaking he threw the jawbone from his hand; and he called that place Ramah Lehi.
And Gideon sent messengers throughout the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come down against Midian, and take before them the waters unto Beth-barah, and the the Jordan. And all the men of Ephraim were called together, and took the waters unto Beth-barah, and the the Jordan.
They both made a covenant before Yahweh. Then David stayed in the woods, and Jonathan went to his house.
He who brought the news answered, "Israel hast fled before the Philistines, and there hast been also a great slaughter among the people. Your two sons also, Hophni and Phinehas, are dead, and God's ark hast been captured."
And they went on waiting till they were shamed, but the doors were still shut: so they took the key, and, opening them, saw their lord outstretched dead on the threshing-floor.
that the daughters of Israel went yearly to keep the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite four days in a year.
Whence also he is able to save completely those who approach by him to God, always living to intercede for them.
As they were going down to the outskirts of the village, Samuel said to Saul, "Tell the servant to pass on before us. When he hast passed, you stand here a while, so that I can make known to you the word of God."
Otherwise if as Jehovah liveth the God of Israel, who hath withholden me from doing thee any evil: if thou hadst not quickly come to meet me, there had not been left to Nabal by the morning light any that pisseth against the wall.
They said to Jephthah, "Come and be our chief, that we may fight with the children of Ammon."
And Gideon hath gone in, and prepareth a goat, and of an ephah of fine flour unleavened things; the flesh he hath put in a basket, and the broth he hath put in a pot, and he bringeth out unto him, unto the place of the oak, and bringeth at hand.
Then Samuel said to him, even Jehovah, hast rent the kingdom of Israel from thee to-day, and hast given it to thy neighbor, who is better than thou.
And gave him the news of how Saul had put to death the Lord's priests.
So whensoever the evil spirit from Jehovah was upon Saul, David took his harp, and played with his hand, and Saul was refreshed, and was better, for the evil spirit departed from him.
He captured Agag the king of Amalek alive, but all the people he utterly destroyed with the edge of the sword.
When Abimelech had reigned three years over Israel,
And they gave to him seventy pieces of silver from the temple of Baal-Berith, and Abimelech hired with them worthless and reckless men, and they followed him.
fulfil ye my joy, that ye may mind the same thing -- having the same love -- of one soul -- intending the one thing,
And it came to pass, as soon as he had ended offering up the burnt-offering, behold, Samuel came; and Saul went out to meet him, that he might salute him.
And Samuel saith unto all Israel, `Lo, I have hearkened to your voice, to all that ye said to me, and I cause to reign over you a king,
For as long as the son of Jesse lives on the earth, you will not be established nor will your kingdom. Therefore now send and bring him to me, for he shall surely die!"
marriage [be held] every way in honor, and the bed undefiled; for fornicators and adulterers will God judge.
Saul sent messengers to David's house, to watch him, and to kill him in the morning. Michal, David's wife, told him, saying, "If you don't save your life tonight, tomorrow you will be killed."
Therefore the spirit of Jehovah came upon Jephte, and going round Galaad, and Manasses, and Maspha of Galaad, and passing over from thence to the children of Ammon,
Then his brothers and his father's people came down and took him up and put his body to rest in the earth between Zorah and Eshtaol in the resting-place of Manoah his father. And he had been judge of Israel for twenty years.
For rebellion is like the sin of divination; arrogance is like iniquity and idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of Yahweh, he hast rejected you from being king!"
And when Samuel was come to Saul, Saul said to him: Blessed be thou of Jehovah, I have fulfilled the word of Jehovah.
He said, "You have taken away my gods which I made, and the priest, and have gone away? What more do I have? How can you ask me, 'What ails you?'"
Then I said, Lo, I come (in roll of the book it is written of me) to do, O God, thy will.
If they say to us, Keep quiet where you are till we come to you; then we will keep our places and not go up to them.
And she said to him, Give me a blessing; for thou hast given me a southern land; give me also springs of water. And Caleb gave her the upper springs and the lower springs.
Who in the days of his flesh, with a strong cry and tears, offering up prayers and supplications to him that was able to save him from death, was heard for his reverence.
Then returning from Galgal, where the idols were, be said to the king: I have a secret message to thee, O king. And he commanded silence: and all being gone out that were about him,
Let us go therefore with confidence to the throne of grace; that we may obtain mercy, and find favor in seasonable aid.
And Gideon made an ephod thereof, and put it in his city, even in Ophrah: and all Israel went thither the harlot after it: which thing became a snare unto Gideon, and to his house.
Now Eli was ninety-eight years old and his eyes stayed fixed ahead and he was not able to see.
Then Jerubbaal, who is Gideon, and all the people who were with him, rose up early, and encamped besides the spring of Harod. Midian's camp was on the north side of them, by the hill of Moreh, in the valley.
But the things which were profit to me, I gave up for Christ.
And they gave him a piece of a cake of figs, and two clusters of raisins: and when he had eaten, his spirit came again to him: for he had eaten no bread, nor drunk any water, three days and three nights.
Then David said to the Philistine, "You are coming to me with a sword and with a spear and with a javelin, but I am coming to you in the name of Yahweh of hosts, the God of the battle lines of Israel, whom you have defied!
Asher didn't drive out the inhabitants of Acco, nor the inhabitants of Sidon, nor of Ahlab, nor of Achzib, nor of Helbah, nor of Aphik, nor of Rehob;
Every man in distress and every man who had a creditor and every embittered man gathered to him, and he became their commander. Now there were about four hundred men with him.
And David cometh in -- and his men -- unto the city, and lo, burnt with fire, and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters have been taken captive!
And she said to him, Why do you say you are my lover when your heart is not mine? Three times you have made sport of me, and have not made clear to me the secret of your great strength.
We made a raid against the south of the Cherethites, and against what to Judah, and against the south of Caleb; and we burned Ziklag with fire.
in which will we are having been sanctified through the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once,
The staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam; and his spear's head weighed six hundred shekels of iron. His shield bearer went before him.
having become by so much better than the angels, by as much as he hast inherited a more excellent name than theirs.
When he had come, he blew the trumpet in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel went down with him from the hill country, and he led them.
And Saul said to his servants: Seek me a woman that hath a divining spirit, and I will go to her, and inquire by her. And his servants said to him: There is a woman that hath a divining spirit at Endor.
for those saying such things make manifest that they seek a country;
And Saul came to a city of Amalek, and laid wait in the valley.
And Samson said, Now I have a hard question for you: if you are able to give me the answer before the seven days of the feast are over, I will give you thirty linen robes and thirty changes of clothing;
And it came to pass, when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekite had made a raid upon the south, and upon Ziklag, and smitten Ziklag and burned it with fire;
And he said to him: God forbid, thou shalt not die: for my father will do nothing great or little, without first telling me: hath then my father hid this word only from me? no, this shall not be.
For they indeed chastened for a few days, as seemed good to them; but he for profit, in order to the partaking of his sanctification.
When Saul saw that he behaved himself very wisely, he stood in awe of him.
But the children of Benjamin when they saw themselves to be too weak, began to flee. which the children of Israel seeing, gave them place to flee, that they might come to the ambushes that were prepared, which they had set near the city.
And every one in distress, and every one that was in debt, and every one of embittered spirit collected round him; and he became a captain over them; and there were with him about four hundred men.
By so much is Jesus made a surety of a better testament.
And it cometh to pass, on the morrow, that the spirit of sadness God prospereth over Saul, and he prophesieth in the midst of the house, and David is playing with his hand, as day by day, and the spear in the hand of Saul,
and they come in thither to the height, and lo, a band of prophets -- to meet him, and prosper over him doth the Spirit of God, and he prophesieth in their midst.
And these are the golden emerods, which the Philistines returned for sin to Jehovah; For Azotus one, for Azzah one, for Ascalon one, for Geth one, for Accaron one:
And she sent and called Barak the son of Abinoam out of Kedeshnaphtali, and said unto him, Hath not Jehovah, the God of Israel, commanded, saying, Go and draw toward mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali and of the children of Zebulun?
And they said one to another: Who hath done this? And when they learned for the God of the fact, it was said: Gedeon the son of Joas did all this.
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother, took it; and he gave him Achsah his daughter as wife.
Then Ehud reached with his left hand for the sword on his right thigh, and he thrust it into his stomach.
So Gaal went out at the head of the townsmen of Shechem and made war on Abimelech.
There was a man from the hill-country of Ephraim. his name was Micah.
Then Saul said to Michal, "Why have you deceived me like this and sent away my enemy, so that he escaped?" Michal said to Saul, "He said to me, 'Let me go, why should I kill you?'"
So David and Abishai came to the army by night, and there was Saul lying asleep in the encampment with his spear thrust into the ground near his head, and Abner and the army were lying all around him.
Thou tookest no pleasure in burnt-offerings and sacrifices for sin.
For the law, having a shadow of the coming good things, not the image itself of the things, can never, by the same sacrifices which they offer continually yearly, perfect those who approach.
And Saul sought to nail David to the wall with his spear. And David slipt away out of the presence of Saul: and the spear missed him, and was fastened in the wall, and David fled and escaped that night.
do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion, in the day of testing in the wilderness,
Ibzan died, and was buried in Beth-lehem.
It was so, that, after they had carried it there, Yahweh's hand was against the city with a very great confusion; and he smote the men of the city, both small and great so that tumors broke out on them.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not: ye have done all this wickedness: yet turn not aside from following Jehovah, but serve Jehovah with all your heart;
And they tarried till they were ashamed: and, behold, he opened not the doors of the parlour; therefore they took a key, and opened them; and, behold, their lord was fallen down dead on the earth.
Therefore we ought to pay greater attention to the things that were heard, lest by any means we drift away.
And the children of Dan said to him: See thou say no more to us, lest men enraged come upon thee, and thou perish with all thy house.
So Midian was broken before the children of Israel and the Midianites never got back their strength. And the land had peace for forty years, in the days of Gideon.
By faith, Rahab the prostitute, didn't perish with those who were disobedient, having received the spies in peace.
And it hath come to pass, at the death of the judge -- they turn back and have done corruptly above their fathers, to go after other gods to serve them, and to bow themselves to them; they have not fallen from their doings, and from their stiff way.
And there were found of Jabes Galaad four hundred virgins, that had not known the bed of a man, and they brought them to the camp Silo, into the land of Chanaan.
And Hannah answereth and saith, `No, my lord, A woman sharply pained in spirit I , and wine and strong drink I have not drunk, and I pour out my soul before Jehovah;
Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was on him, and gave it to David, and his clothing, even including his sword, his bow, and his sash.
So they went up to the town. As they were entering into the middle of the village, Samuel was coming forth to meet them, to go up to the high place.
Then I said, See, I have come to do your pleasure, O God as it is said of me in the roll of the book).
It will come to pass, when Yahweh hast done to my lord according to all the good that he hast spoken concerning you, and hast appointed you prince over Israel,
And when the men of the city arose early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal was cast down, and the Asherah was cut down that was by it, and the second bullock was offered upon the altar that was built.
For in very deed, as Jehovah, the God of Israel, liveth, who hath kept me back from hurting thee, except thou hadst hasted and come to meet me, surely there had not been left unto Nabal by the morning light any that pisseth against the wall.
On the next day, the people rose early, and built an altar there, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
Now therefore stand up, that I may plead in judgment against you before Jehovah, concerning all the kindness of Jehovah, which he hath shewn to you, and to your fathers:
When he came, behold, Eli was sitting on his seat by the road watching; for his heart trembled for God's ark. When the man came into the city and told about it, all the city cried out.
not that in respect of want I say , for I did learn in the things in which I am -- to be content;
They said, "There must be an inheritance for those who are escaped of Benjamin, that a tribe not be blotted out from Israel.
When he saw her, he tore his clothes, and said, "Alas, my daughter! You have brought me very low, and you are one of those who trouble me; for I have opened my mouth to Yahweh, and I can't go back."
and `the righteous by faith shall live,' and `if he may draw back, My soul hath no pleasure in him,'
So Eli said to Samuel, Go back; and if the voice comes again, let your answer be, Say on, Lord; for the ears of your servant are open. So Samuel went back to his bed.
For Christ hasn't entered into holy places made with hands, which are representations of the true, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us;
Look, this day your eyes have seen that Yahweh gave you to-day into my hand in the cave, and some said to kill you. But I took pity on you and said, 'I will not stretched out my hand against my lord, because he is Yahweh's anointed one.'
Abimelech went up to Mount Zalmon, he and all the people who were with him; and Abimelech took an ax in his hand, and cut down a bough from the trees, and took it up, and laid it on his shoulder. Then he said to the people who were with him, "What you have seen me do, make haste, and do as I have done!"
for they, indeed, for a few days, according to what seemed good to them, were chastening, but He for profit, to partake of His impurity;
Gideon said to them, "I do have a request, that you would each give me the rings of his plunder." (for they had golden rings, because they were Ishmaelites.)
And this is the thing that ye shall do, Ye shall utterly destroy every male, and every woman that hath lain by man.
looking anxiously lest there be any man who falls short of the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and many be defiled by it;
And the five men departed, and came to Laish; and they saw the people that were therein, dwelling securely, after the manner of the Sidonians, quiet and secure; and no one was in the land who possessed authority, that might put to shame in anything; and they were far from the Sidonians, and had nothing to do with man.
Behold, I will send the boy, saying, 'Go, find the arrows!' If I tell the boy, 'Behold, the arrows are on this side of you. Take them;' then come; for there is peace to you and no danger, as Yahweh lives.
I will draw to you, to the river Kishon, Sisera, the captain of Jabin's army, with his chariots and his multitude; and I will deliver him into your hand.'"
The trees went to anoint a king over them: and they said to the olive tree; Reign thou over us.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David, I pray thee, stand before me; for he hast found favor in my sight.
And the children of Israel he was returning after they had pursued the Philistines, fell upon their camp.
and the golden mice, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five lords, both of fortified cities and of country villages, even to the great stone, on which they set down Yahweh's ark. that stone remains to this day in the field of Joshua of Beth Shemesh.
and he hath thirty sons and thirty daughters, he hath sent without and thirty daughters hath brought in to his sons from without; and he judgeth Israel seven years.
so that at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow, of those in heaven and of those on earth and of those under the earth,
And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to David, and gave him bread, and he ate; and they gave him water to drink,
For finding fault with them, he said, "Behold, the days come", says Jehovah, "that I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah:
And over it were the cherubim of glory overshadowing the propitiatory: of which it is not needful to speak now particularly.
But the hand of Jehovah was heavy upon them of Ashdod, and he destroyed them, and smote them with emerods, even Ashdod, and the borders thereof.
And there ran a man of Benjamin out of the army, and came to Shiloh the same day with his clothes rent, and earth upon his head.
Moreover we have had fathers of our flesh, for instructors, and we did them: shall we not much more obey the Father of spirits, and live?
And he said to him, We are marching from Bethlehem-Judah towards the further side of mount Ephraim: from thence am I; and I went to Bethlehem-Judah, and I have to do with the house of Jehovah; and there is no man that receives me into his house.
And he smote them hip and thigh with a great slaughter. And he went down and dwelt in the hoof cloven of the ascent Etam.
for my father fought and risked his life for you and delivered you from the hand of Midian:
He asked for water. She gave him milk. She brought him butter in a lordly dish.
By faith Henoch was translated, that he should not see death; and he was not found, because God had translated him: for before his translation he had testimony that he pleased God.
So take him to your hearts in Jehovah with all joy, and give honor to such as he is:
When she came, she got him to ask her father for a field. She dismounted from off of her donkey; and Caleb said to her, "What would you like?"
Therefore, let us make every effort to enter into that rest, in order that no one may fall in the same pattern of disobedience.
And there was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the Danites, whose name was Manoah; and his wife was barren, and bare not.
Naphtali did not take possession of Beth-shemesh, nor the inhabitants of Beth-anath; and he dwelt among the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land, but the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh and of Beth-anath became tributary to them.
And the people fell on the spoil, and took sheep and oxen, and calves, and slaughtered them on the ground; and the people ate with the blood.
The captains of Issachar were with Debbora, and followed the steps of Barac, who exposed himself to danger, as one going headlong, and into a pit. Ruben being divided against himself, there was found a strife of courageous men.
But the man was not willing to spend the night, and he bought up and went; and he touched opposite Jebus (that is, Jerusalem). He had with him a pair of saddled donkeys and his concubine.
And Samson saith to them, `Though ye do thus, nevertheless I am avenged on you, and afterwards I cease!'
And they rose up early in the morning and worshipped before Jehovah, and returned and came to their house at Ramah. And Elkanah knew Hannah his wife; and even Jehovah, remembered her.
Then Jesse called Abinadab and made him pass before Samuel, and he said, "This one also Yahweh hast not chosen."
And they turned aside thither, to go in and to lodge in the hill: and when he went in, he sat him down in the street of the city: for there was no man that took them into his house to lodging.
Then I said, 'Behold, I have come in the roll of the book it is written about me to do your will, O God.'
When the boy came up to the place of the arrow that Jonathan had shot, Jonathan called out after the boy and said, "Is not the arrow beyond you?"
And on the fourth day they said to Samson's wife, Get from your husband the answer to his question by some trick or other, or we will have you and your father's house burned with fire; did you get us here to take all we have?
And to them that were in Aroer, and to them that were in Siphmoth, and to them that were in Eshtemoa
So David and his men went to Keilah and fought with the Philistines. They drove off their livestock and dealt them a heavy wound. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
And Delilah took new ropes, and bound him with them, and said to him, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson! Now there were liers-in-wait abiding in the chamber. And he broke them from off his arms like a thread.
They had no one to make arms, there were no more armed men in the towns; was there a body-cover or a spear to be seen among forty thousand in Israel?
[It is] a fearful thing falling into hands of living God.
Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
And the woman came unto Saul, and saw that he was sore troubled, and said unto him, Behold, thy handmaid hath obeyed thy voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have hearkened unto thy words which thou spakest unto me.
And we will take ten men of a hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred of a thousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand, to fetch victuals for the people, that they may do, when they come to Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all the folly that they have wrought in Israel.
And Jonathan saith, `Lo, we are passing over unto the men, and are revealed unto them;
for those in Hebron, and for all the places where David and his men had roamed.
And David abode in the wilderness in strongholds, and abode in the mountain in the wilderness of Ziph. And Saul sought him every day, but God did not give him into his hand.
And Samuel saith unto the people, `Fear not; ye have done all this evil; only, turn not aside from after even Jehovah, -- and ye have served Jehovah with all your heart,
Her father said, "I most certainly thought that you utterly hated her; therefore I gave her to your companion. Isn't her younger sister more beautiful than she be? Please take her, instead."
and apart from faith it is impossible to please well, for it behoveth him who is coming to God to believe that He is, and to those seeking Him He becometh a rewarder.
When the five lords of the Philistines had seen it, they returned to Ekron the same day.
And he said to his mother, "The eleven hundred pieces of silver that were taken from you, and about which you also pronounced a curse in my hearing, are with me; I took it." And his mother said, "Blessed be my son by Yahweh."
and having a great priest over God's house,
And when the spies saw a man leaving the city, they said to him, "Please show us the entrance of the city, and we will deal kindly with you."
From year to year he went in turn to Beth-el and Gilgal and Mizpah, judging Israel in all those places.
Saul was even more afraid of David; and Saul was David's enemy continually.
Yea, and if I be offered upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I joy, and rejoice with you all.
And Samuel said to the cook: Bring the portion, which I gave thee, and commanded thee to set it apart by thee.
"But the olive-tree said to them, 'Should I leave my fatness, with which they honor God and man by me, and go to wave back and forth over the trees?'
And with whom was he angry for forty years? was it not with those who did evil, who came to their death in the waste land?
And for the selfsame thing do you also rejoice, and bless with me.
and have seen, and lo, if the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in dances -- then ye have gone out from the vineyards, and caught for you each his wife out of the daughters of Shiloh, and gone to the land of Benjamin:
So David took the spear and the cruse of water from Saul's bolster; and they gat them away, and no man saw it, nor knew it, neither awaked: for they were all asleep; because a deep sleep from Jehovah was fallen upon them.
And Jehovah looked upon him, and said, Go in this thy might, and thou shalt save Israel from the hand of Midian. Have not I sent thee?
And David left the things he was carrying in the hand of the keeper of the baggage, and ran into the ranks, and came and saluted his brethren.
and might deliver those, whoever, with fear of death, throughout all their life, were subjects of bondage,
When they were by the house of Micah, they knew the voice of the young man the Levite: and they turned in thither, and said unto him, Who brought thee hither? and what makest thou in this place? and what hast thou here?
And she said, "May your female slave find favor in your sight." Then the woman went on her way and ate something and her face did not look sad any longer.
And they that were in ambush arose on a sudden out of their coverts, and Whilst Benjamin turned their backs to the slayers, went into the city, and smote it with the edge of the sword.
So the Israelites removed the Baals and the Ashtoreths, and they served Yahweh alone.
For finding fault with them, he saith: Behold, the days shall come, saith Jehovah; and I will perfect unto the house of Israel, and unto the house of Joda, a new covenant;
Now of the things which we have spoken, this is the sum: We have such a high priest, who is set on the right hand of the throne of majesty in the heavens,
But he himself turned again from the quarries that were by Gilgal, and said, I have a secret errand unto thee, O king; who said, Keep silence. And all that stood by him went out from him.
Now a man of God came to Eli and said to him: "Thus says Yahweh: 'Did I not clearly to reveal myself to the house of your ancestor when they were in Egypt under the house of Pharaoh?
When you have gone away from me today, you will see two men by the resting-place of Rachel's body, in the land of Benjamin at Zelzah; and they will say to you, The asses which you went in search of have come back, and now your father, caring no longer for the asses, is troubled about you, saying, What am I to do about my son?
And David saith unto Abishai, `Destroy him not; for who hath put forth his hand against the anointed of Jehovah, and been acquitted?'
And Saul sendeth messengers unto the house of David to watch him, and to put him to death in the morning; and Michal his wife declareth to David, saying, `If thou art not delivering thy life to-night -- tomorrow thou art put to death.'
We made an invasion upon the south of the Cherethites, and upon the border which belongeth to Judah, and upon the south of Caleb; and we burned Ziklag with fire.
The man, the master of the house, went out to them, and said to them, "No, my brothers, please don't act so wickedly; since this man hast come into my house, don't do this folly.
They instructed the descendants of Benjamin, saying, "Go, ambush in the vineyards,
Samuel said, "Just as your sword bereaved women, so will your mother be bereaved among women!" Then Samuel hacked Agag to pieces in the presence of Yahweh at Gilgal.
and Jonathan saith to David, `Go in peace, in that we have sworn -- we two -- in the name of Jehovah, saying, even Jehovah, is between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed -- unto the age;' and he riseth and goeth; and Jonathan hath gone in to the city.
Samuel heard all the words of the people, and he rehearsed them in the ears of Yahweh.
And after him Elon the Zebulunite judgeth Israel, and he judgeth Israel ten years,
But Jonathan, having no knowledge of the oath his father had put on the people, stretching out the rod which was in his hand, put the end of it in the honey, and put it to his mouth; then his eyes were made bright.
And having a great high priest, who hast passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold tightly to our confession.
And Saul learned of God, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou give them into the hand of Israel? But he did not answer him that day.
And he waiteth seven days, according to the word with Samuel, and Samuel hath not come to Gilgal, and the people are scattered from off him.
and he saith to them, `Why do ye things like these? for I am hearing of your evil words from all the people -- these!
Then three thousand of the men of Judah went down to the crack of the rock of Etam, and said to Samson, Is it not clear to you that the Philistines are our rulers? What is this you have done to us? And he said to them, I only did to them as they did to me.
but into the second, the high priest only, once a year, not without blood, which he offers for himself and for the errors of the people;
and build an altar to Yahweh your God on the top of this stronghold in the language arrangement, and take a second bull and offer it as a burnt-offering with the wood of the Asherah that you will cut down.
He took his staff in his hand, and chose for himself five smooth stones out of the valley, and put them in the pouch of his shepherd's bag which he had. His sling was in his hand; and he came near to the Philistine.
And he said unto them, This is what Micah did for me, and he gave me payment and I became his priest.
And the two of them made an agreement before Jehovah: and David went on living in Horesh, and Jonathan went back to his house.
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the Apostle and High Priest of our profession, Christ Jesus,
And he saith unto him, `If, I pray Thee, I have found favor in Thine eyes, then Thou hast done for me a sign that Thou art speaking with me.
And Jonathan maketh -- also David -- a covenant, because he loveth him as his own soul,
and it cometh to pass when they see him, that they take thirty companions, and they are with him.
And David said to Abiathar: I knew that day when Doeg the Edomite was there, that without doubt he would tell Saul: I have been the occasion of the death of all the souls of thy father's house.
You made him for a short season, lower than the angels; you crowned him with glory and honor;
And though he was a Son, through the pain which he underwent, the knowledge came to him of what it was to be under God's orders;
But I rejoice in Jehovah greatly, that now at length you have revived your thought for me; in which you did indeed take thought, but you lacked opportunity.
And he had greaves of brass upon its legs, and a target of brass between his shoulders.
And Manoah saith, `Now let thy words come to pass; what is the custom of the youth -- and his work?'
From that day Gedeon was called Jerobaal, because Joss had said: Let Baal avenge himself on him that hath cast down his altar.
and Samuel saith, `What hast thou done?' And Saul saith, `Because I saw that the people were scattered from off me, and thou hadst not come at the word of the days, and the Philistines are gathered to Michmash
Then whoever comes out from the door of my house, meeting me when I come back in peace from the children of Ammon, will be the Lord's and I will give him as a burned thereof.
And it is yet more abundantly most evident, if according to the likeness of Melchisedek there doth arise another priest,
And when he had ended these words singing, he threw the jawbone out of his hand, and called the name of that place Ramathlechi, which is interpreted the lifting up of the jawbone.
Of whom we have much to say, and hard to be intelligibly uttered: because you are become weak to hear.
Samuel said, "How can I go? If Saul hears it, he will kill me." Yahweh said, "Take a heifer with you, and say, I have come to sacrifice to Yahweh.
So the king said to the runners who were stationed around him, "Turn and kill the priests of Yahweh, because they also support David and because they knew that he was fleeing and did not disclose it to me." But the servants of the king were not willing to raise their hand to attack the priests of Yahweh.
And Saul and his men went on the one side of the mountain, and David and his men went on the other: and David's purpose was to get away as quickly as possible, for fear of Saul; for Saul and his men were making a circle round David and his men in order to take them.
And he said to her, Get up and let us be going; but there was no answer; so he took her up and put her on the ass, and went on his way and came to his house.
And the messengers came in, and behold, the image was in the bed, and the net of goats' at itself head.
For we know him that hath said: Vengeance belongeth to me, and I will repay. And again: Jehovah will judge his people.
Do not be turned away by different strange teachings, because it is good for your hearts to be made strong by grace, and not by meats, which were of no profit to those who took so much trouble over them.
And the Holy Spirit also testifies to us, for after saying,
And Samuel said, How can I go? if Saul hear it, he will kill me. And Jehovah said, Take a heifer with thee, and say, I am come to sacrifice to Jehovah.
And the man Elkanah with all his family went up to make the year's oblation to Jehovah, and to give effect to his oath.
And the men of Israel said, "Did you see this man who hast come up? For he is ascent to defy Israel! It will be that the man who defeats him, the king will make him very rich with great wealth and will give him his daughter in marriage and will make his father's house free in Israel."
So Jonathan the son of Saul got up and went to David at Horesh, and encouraged him through God.
And I beseech you, brethren, suffer the word of his exhorting: for I have written a letter unto you in few words.
and to whom did He swear that they shall not enter into His rest, except to those who did not believe? --
Jehovah killeth and maketh alive, he bringeth down to Sheol and bringeth back again.
Then Samuel said unto Saul, Stay, and I will tell thee what Jehovah hath said to me this night. And he said unto him, Say on.
He smote them from Aroer until you come to Minnith, even twenty cities, and to Abelcheramim, with a very great slaughter. So the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
God bearing them witness by signs and wonders and divers signs, and distributions of the Holy Spirit, according to his own will.
Now therefore, if ye have done truly and sincerely, in that ye have made Abimelech king, and if ye have dealt well with Jerubbaal and his house, and have done unto him according to the deserving of his hands;
For finding fault with them, he saith, Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah:
Because of this, it is all the more necessary that we pay attention to the things we have heard, lest we drift away.
And he goeth thither -- unto Naioth in Ramah, and the Spirit of God is upon him -- him also; and he goeth, going on, and he prophesyeth till his coming in to Naioth in Ramah,
according to my earnest expectation and hope, that I will in no way be disappointed, but with all boldness, as always, now Christ will be magnified in my body, whether by life, or by death.
And he numbered them in Bezek, and the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
Esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasure of the Egyptians. For he looked unto the reward.
So Michal let David down through a window: and he went, and fled, and escaped.
And the citizens of Shechem set liers-in-wait for him on the tops of the mountains, and they robbed all that came along that way by them. And it was told Abimelech.
By faith Joseph, when he died, made mention of the departing of the children of Israel; and gave commandment concerning his bones.
And David abode with Achish at Gath, he and his men, every man with his household; David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jizreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelitess, Nabal's wife.
Not that I did already obtain, or have been already perfected; but I pursue, if also I may lay hold of that for which also I was laid hold of by the Christ Jesus,
And I entreat thee also, true yokefellow, help those women who labored with me in the gospel, with Clement also, and with other my fellowlabourers, whose names are in the book of life.
And again, I will put my trust in him. And again, Behold, I and the children whom God hath given me.
(Because the law made nothing complete), and in itself place there is a better hope, through which we come near to God.
Then they said to him, Say now Shibboleth! and he said, Sibboleth, and did not manage to pronounce rightly. Then they took him, and slaughtered him at the fords of the Jordan. And there fell at that time of Ephraim forty-two thousand.
And Israel was greatly impoverished because of Midian, and the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah.
Marriage is honorable in all, and the bed undefiled; but whoremongers and adulterers God will judge.
And when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard of that which the Philistines had done to Saul;
And David came to Nobe to Achimelech the priest; and Achimelech was astonished at David's coming. And he said to him: Why art thou alone, and no man with thee?
So that their shares, and their spades, and their forks, and their axes were blunt, even to the goad, which was to be mended.
Do not refuse hospitality, because through this some received angels as guests without knowing it.
Now while she was a long time in prayer before Jehovah, Eli was watching her mouth.
And when the Philistine looked about, and saw David, he disdained him: for he was but a youth, and ruddy, and of a fair countenance.
But Jehovah said unto Samuel, Look not on his countenance, or on the height of his stature; because I have refused him: for Jehovah seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but Jehovah looketh on the heart.
And he who is bearing tidings answereth and saith, `Israel hath fled before the Philistines, and also a great slaughter hath been among the people, and also thy two sons have died -- Hophni and Phinehas -- and the ark of God hath been captured.'
And David having girded his sword upon his armor, began to try if he could walk in armour: for he was not accustomed to it. And David said to Saul: I cannot go thus, for I am not used to it. And he laid them off,
as to zeal, persecuting the assembly; as to righteousness which in law, found blameless;
And Saul, and Jonathan his son, and the people that were present with them, abode in Gibeah of Benjamin: but the Philistines encamped in Michmash.
For I know that this shall turn to my salvation through your prayer, and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
For ye have need of patience, that, after ye have done the will of God, ye may receive the promise.
And the king saith, `Thou dost surely die, Ahimelech, thou, and all the house of thy father.'
because you will conceive and bear a son. No razor will touch his head, because the boy will be a Nazirite of God from birth. And it is he who will begin to deliver Israel from the hand of the Philistines."
And they took their bones, and buried them under a tree at Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
So Saul took three thousand chosen men from all Israel, and he and his men went to search for David in With the Rocks of the Mountain Goats.
So Manoah took the young goat with the meal thereof, and offered it on the rock to Yahweh. Then the angel did an amazing thing as Manoah and his wife watched.
Now therefore hear thou also the voice of thy handmaid, and let me set before thee a morsel of bread, that thou mayest eat and recover strength, and be able to go on thy journey.
Then Manoah prayed to Jehovah, and said, Ah Jehovah! let the man of God which thou didst send come again unto us, I pray thee, and teach us what we shall do unto the child that shall be born.
And the angel of Jehovah said to him: Take the flesh and the unleavened loaves, and lay them upon that rock, and pour out the broth thereon. And when he had done so,
Then Eli answered, "Go in peace; and may the God of Israel grant your petition that you have asked of him."
And Saul said, Truly, I have done the orders of Jehovah and have gone the way Jehovah sent me; I have taken Agag, the king of Amalek, and have given the Amalekite up to destruction.
And Saul summoned the people, and numbered them in Telaim, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And when they had turned a little aside, they went into the house of young man the Levite, who was in the house of Michas: and they saluted him with words of peace.
And the five men that went to spy out the land went up, and they entered there and took the graven divine image, ephod, teraphim, and the molten image. The priest was standing at the entrance of the gate with the six hundred men armed with the weapons of war.
And Jotham hasteth, and fleeth, and goeth to Beer, and dwelleth there, from the face of Abimelech his brother.
Now Deborah a woman prophet, the wife of Lapidoth, was judge of Israel at that time.
And David took the head of the Philistine to Jerusalem, but the metal war-dress and the arms he put in his tent.
So that we, who have gone in flight from danger to the hope who hast been put before us, may have a strong comfort in two unchanging things, in which it is not possible for God to be false;
And the sons of Dan raise up for themselves the graven image, and Jonathan son of Gershom, son of Manasseh, he and his sons have been priests to the tribe of the Danite, till the day of the removal of [the people] of the land.
Then three thousand men of Judah went down to the hoof cloven of the ascent Etam, and said to Samson, Knowest thou not that the Philistines rule over us? And what is this that thou hast done to us? And he said to them, As they did to me, so have I done to them.
But whenever the judge was dead, they went back and did more evil than their fathers, going after other gods, to be their servants and their worshippers; giving up nothing of their sins and their hard-hearted ways.
Then calling to him all the men of Galaad, he fought against Ephraim: and the men of Galaad defeated Ephraim, because he had said: Galaad is a fugitive of Ephraim, and dwelleth in the midst of Ephraim and Manasses.
And his brethren and all his kindred, going down took his body, and buried it between Saraa and Esthaol in the burying-place, of his father Manue: and he judged Israel twenty years.
And be found in him, not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God through faith;
My God will supply every need of yours according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared to them no more. And straightway Manue understood that it was an angel of Jehovah,
And they arose earnestly: and it came to pass about the spring of the day, that Samuel called Saul to the top of the house, saying, Up, that I may send thee away. And Saul arose, and they went out both of them, he and Samuel, abroad.
But whatever things were gain to me, these things I have considered loss because of Christ.
Then I grabbed my concubine and cut her into pieces, and I sent her throughout all the territory of Israel's inheritance; for they committed a shameful and disgraceful thing in Israel.
And the house was full of men and women, and all of the rulers of the Philistines were thereabout three thousand men and women were on the roof watching the fulfilment of Samson.
and said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought up Israel out of Egypt, and delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all the kingdoms, and of them that oppressed you:
And David abode in the wilderness in strongholds, and remained in the mountain in the wilderness of Ziph. And Saul sought him every day, but God delivered him not into his hand.
If thy father at all miss me, then say, David earnestly asked leave of me that he might run to Beth-lehem his city: for there is a yearly sacrifice there for all the family.
His oldest brother Eliab heard while he was speaking to the men, and Eliab became very angry against David and said, "Why have you come down today, and with whom have you left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know your presumptuousness and the evil of your heart! For you have come down in order to see the battle!"
Therefore thou shalt deal kindly with thy servant; for thou hast brought thy servant into a covenant of Jehovah with thee: notwithstanding, if there be in me iniquity, slay me thyself; for why shouldest thou bring me to thy father?
Aod went in to him: now he was sitting in a summer parlour alone, and he said: I have a word from God to thee. And he straightway rose up from his throne,
By faith we understand the worlds were created by the word of God, in order that what is seen did not come into existence from what is visible.
Saul then summoned all of the army for the battle, to go down to Keilah to lay a siege against David and his men.
And these ten parts of cheese you will bring to the commander of the thousand; find out how your brothers are doing, and take their pledge."
Now Samson went to Gaza, and there he saw a loose woman and went in to her.
having a golden censer, and the ark of the covenant, covered round in every part with gold, in which the golden pot that had the manna, and the rod of Aaron that had sprouted, and the tables of the covenant;
and the lamp of God had not yet gone out, and Samuel lay in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was,
partly both with reproaches and in the afflictions being made spectacles, and partly having become partners of those so living,
And Samuel arose, and gat him up from Gilgal, unto Gibeah of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the people that were present with him, about six hundred men.
Be not carried away with various and strange doctrines; for [it is] good that the heart be confirmed with grace, not meats; those who have walked in which have not been profited by .
But she made him sleep upon her knees, and lay his head in her bosom. And she called a barber, and shaved his seven locks, and began to drive him away, and thrust him from her; for immediately his strength departed from him.
And the Philistine goeth on, going and drawing near unto David, and the man bearing the buckler before him,
And God doth so on that night, and there is drought on the fleece alone, and on all the earth there hath been dew.
Then he went down and spake to the woman, and she pleased Samson.
And they went up and put up their tents in Kiriath-jearim in Judah: so that place is named Mahaneh-dan to this day. It is to the west of Kiriath-jearim.
And Samuel said, What meaneth then this bleating of the sheep in mine ears, and the lowing of the oxen which I hear?
So David went, and his six hundred men went with him, and they came to the stream Besor.
and who doth hearken to you in this thing? for as the portion of him who was brought down into battle, so also the portion of him who is abiding by the vessels -- alike they share.'
Let love of the brethren remain;
And Samuel took a stone and set it between Mizpah and Shen, and called the name of it Eben-ezer, and said, Hitherto even Jehovah, hast helped us.
And Moses certainly kept faith as a servant, in all his house, and as a witness of those things which were to be said later;
And Jonathan gave his artillery unto his lad, and said unto him, Go, carry them to the city.
When the people of Ashdod, arose early on the next day, behold, Dagon had fallen on his face to the ground before Yahweh's ark. They took Dagon, and set him in his place again.
So the men of Kiriath-jearim came and took the ark of Jehovah to the house of Abinadab in Gibeah, and they made his son Eleazar holy and put the ark in his care.
And all these people who are here to-day may see that Jehovah does not give salvation by sword and spear, for the fight is the Lord's, and he will give you up into our hands.
Then answered David and said to Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, brother to Joab, saying, Who will go down with me to Saul to the camp? And Abishai said, I will go down with thee.
So that, my beloved, even as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much rather in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling,
And Saul hearkeneth to the voice of Jonathan, and Saul sweareth, `Jehovah liveth -- he doth not die.'
and if thou art afraid to go down -- go down, thou and Phurah thy young man, unto the camp,
And all the people said to Samuel, Make prayer for us to Jehovah your God so that death may not overtake us: for in addition to all our sins we have done this evil, in asking a king.
Jesus Christ yesterday and to-day the same, and to the ages;
And all that generation was gathered to their fathers; and there arose others that knew not Jehovah, and the works which he had done for Israel.
So all the people got branches, every man cutting down a branch, and they went with Abimelech at their head and, massing the branches against the inner chamber, put fire to the room over them; so all those who were in the tower of Shechem, about a thousand men and women, were burned to death with it.
And would to God this people were under my hand! then would I remove Abimelech. And he said to Abimelech, Increase thine army, and come out.
Saul commanded his servants, "Talk with David secretly, and say, 'Behold, the king hast delight in you, and all his servants love you. Now therefore be the king's son-in-law.'"
And if their fathers or their brothers complain to us, we will say to them, 'Allow us to have them, because we did not capture a wife for each man in the battle, and because you did not give them to them, or else you would have been guilty.'"
And David said to Achish, You will see now what your servant will do. And Achish said to David, then I will make you keeper of my head for ever.
And he came to his father's house, to Ophrah, and slew his brethren the sons of Jerubbaal, seventy persons upon one stone; but there remained Jotham the youngest son of Jerubbaal; for he had hid himself.
Then Jonathan and David made a covenant, because he loved him as his own soul.
And David was the youngest: and the three eldest followed Saul.
Moreover Yahweh will deliver Israel also with you into the hand of the Philistines; and tomorrow you and your sons will be with me. Yahweh will deliver the army of Israel also into the hand of the Philistines."
But to Hannah he gave one part, though Hannah was very dear to him, but Jehovah had not let her have children.
and the ambush have hasted, and push against Gibeah, and the ambush draweth itself out, and smiteth the whole of the city by the mouth of the sword.
only that the generations of the children of Israel might know war by learning it, at the least those who before had known nothing thereof:
And David went thence to Mizpeh in Moab, and said to the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother, I pray thee, come forth amongst you, till I know what God will do for me.
So David swore this on oath to Saul, and Saul went to his house, but David and his men went up to the stronghold.
And Barak said unto her, If thou wilt go with me, then I will go: but if thou wilt not go with me, then I will not go.
The Philistines overtook Saul and on his sons; and the Philistines killed Jonathan, Abinadab, and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul.
She made a vow and said: "O Yahweh of hosts, if you will look with compassion on the misery of your female servant, and will remember me, and not forget your female servant, and will give to your female servant a male child then I will give him to Yahweh all the days of his life and a razor will never pass over his head."
And Jehovah sent a very evil spirit between Abimelech and the inhabitants of Sichem: who began to detest him,
And Abimelech went to Thebez, and encamped against Thebez, and took it.
and now, bear, I pray thee, with my sin, and turn back with me, and I bow myself to Jehovah.'
And Samuel said to all the people, See ye him whom even Jehovah, hast chosen, that there is none like him among all the people? And all the people shouted and said, May the king live.
And Saul saith to his servants who are standing by him, `Hear, I pray you, ye Benjamites; also to all of you doth the son of Jesse give fields and vineyards! all of you he doth appoint heads of thousands and heads of hundreds!
For surely that our Lord sprang out of Judah: in which tribe Moses spoke nothing concerning priests.
So Achish called David and said to him, "As Yahweh lives, certainly you were honorable, and I am pleased to have you marching with me in the campaign. For I have not found any wrong in you from the day you came to me until this day, but in the eyes of the rulers, you are not good.
And Abimelech son of Jerubbaal went to Shechem to his mother's brethren, and spoke to them, and to all the family of the house of his mother's father, saying,
And the men of Israel turn in battle, and Benjamin hath begun to smite the wounded among the men of Israel, about thirty men, for they said, `Surely they are utterly smitten before us, as the first battle;
And it came to pass when Israel sowed, that Midian came up, and Amalek, and the children of the east, and came up against them.
And the children of Israel being moved with repentance for their brother Benjamin, began to say: one tribe is taken away from Israel.
And now, see, the king is before you: and I am old and grey-headed, and my sons are with you; I have been living before your eyes from my early days till now.
And this the thing which ye do; every male, and every woman knowing the lying of a male, ye devote.'
and he saith, `Peace; to sacrifice to even Jehovah, I have come, sanctify yourselves, and ye have come in with me to the sacrifice;' and he hath sanctified Jesse and his sons, and calleth them to the sacrifice.
But this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins for ever, sat down on the right hand of God;
Let us labor therefore to enter into that rest, lest any man fall after the same example of unbelief.
And Samuel said to Saul, You have done a foolish thing: you have not kept the rules which Jehovah your God gave you; it was the purpose of Jehovah to make your authority over Israel safe for ever.
And the man, the master of the house, goeth out unto them, and saith unto them, `Nay, my brethren, do not evil, I pray you, after that this man hath come in unto my house, do not this folly;
What shall we do for wives for them that remain? since we have sworn by even Jehovah, that we will not give them of our daughters for wives.
And the chiefs of the Philistines came up to her, and said to her, Make use of your power over him and see what is the secret of his great strength, and how we may get the better of him, and put bands on him, so that we may make him feeble; and every one of us will give you eleven hundred shekels of silver.
I winepress on toward the goal for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.
And the woman saith unto him, `Lo, thou hast known that which Saul hath done, that he hath cut off those having familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land; and why art thou laying a snare for my soul -- to put me to death?'
Then Abigail quickly took two hundred cakes of bread and two skins full of wine and five sheep ready for cooking and five measures of dry grain and a hundred parcels of dry grapes and two hundred cakes of figs, and put them on asses.
and the sons of Israel turn back from burning after the Philistines, and spoil their camps.
Wherefore lift up the hands which hang down, and the feeble knees,
And they are gathered to Mizpeh, and draw water, and pour out before Jehovah, and fast on that day, and say there, `We have sinned against Jehovah;' and Samuel judgeth the sons of Israel in Mizpah.
And Jael went out to meet Sisera, and said unto him, Turn in, my lord, turn in to me; fear not. And when he had turned in unto her into the tent, she covered him with a robe.
For you have not come to something that can be touched, and to a burning fire, and to darkness, and to gloom, and to a whirlwind,
So Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many; and unto them that look for him shall he appear the second time without sin unto salvation.
Then David attacked them from twilight until the evening of the next day. not a man of them escaped except four hundred young men who rode off on camels and fled.
And now let not my blood be shed upon the earth before Jehovah; for the king of Israel is come out to seek a flea, as the partridge that is hunted in the mountains.
Her wise princesses answered her, Yea, she returned answer to herself,
in order that through two unchangeable things, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we who have taken refuge may have powerful encouragement to hold fast to the hope set before us,
He took it into his hands, and went on, eating as he went. He came to his father and mother, and gave to them, and they ate, but he didn't tell them that he had taken the honey out of the lion's body.
And the towns which the Philistines had taken were given back to Israel, from Ekron to Gath, and all the region round them Israel made free from the power of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into the chamber, and gave them a place at the head of them that were invited; and they were about thirty persons.
When Zebul the ruler of the city heard the words of Gaal the son of Ebed, his anger burned.
But, one of the sons of Ahimelech the son of Ahitub, whose name was Abiathar, escaped and fled after David.
And they remembered not Jehovah their God, who delivered them out of the hands of all their enemies round about:
Now David went to and from Saul, looking after his father's sheep at Beth-lehem.
And forasmuch as it is the portion of men once to die, and after this judgment;
She wept before him the seven days of their feast; and it happened, because she nagged him, on the seventh day he explained it to her, and she told the riddle to her people.
thus also Christ, having been offered once in order to bear the sins of many, will appear for the second time without reference to sin to those who eagerly await him for salvation.
and the hand of the sons of Israel goeth, going on and becoming hard on Jabin king of Canaan, till that they have cut off Jabin king of Canaan.
that at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow, of those in heaven, those on earth, and those under the earth,
All the saints salute you, and specially those of the household of Caesar.
Receive him therefore in Lord with all joy, and hold such in honor;
that through two immutable things, in which [it is] impossible for God to lie, a strong comfort we may have who did flee for refuge to lay hold on the hope set before ,
And when he numbered them in Bezek, the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they departed every man unto his place.
And to Abigail wife of Nabal hath one young man of the youths declared, saying, `Lo, David hath sent messengers out of the wilderness to bless our lord, and he flieth upon them;
And when the man rose up to depart, he, and his concubine, and his servant, his father-in-law, the damsel's father, said unto him, Behold, now the day draweth toward evening, I pray you tarry all night: behold, the day groweth to an end, lodge here, that thy heart may be merry; and to-morrow get you early on your way, that thou mayest go home.
And there came a man of God to Eli and said to him, Thus saith Jehovah: Did I plainly reveal myself to the house of thy father when they were in Egypt, in Pharaoh's house,
And the tribes of Israel sent men through all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, What wickedness is this that is done among you?
And there journey thence, of the family of the Danite, from Zorah, and from Eshtaol, six hundred men girded with weapons of war.
Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity; therefore God, even thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows.
But he refused, and said: I will not eat. But his servants and the woman forced him, and at length Hearkening to their voice, he arose from the ground and sat upon the bed.
And Gaal saw the people, and said to Zebul, Behold, people are coming down from the tops of the mountains. And Zebul said to him, Thou seest the shadow of the mountains as men.
(Now Heber Kain had set apart himself from the Kenite, from the children of Hobab the father-in-law of Moses, and had pitched his tent as far as the oak of Zaannaim, which is by Kedesh.)
And David came to the two hundred men, who because of weariness had not gone with him, but were waiting the slope Besor: and they went out, meeting David and the people who were with him; and when they came near them, they said, How are you?
And all these being approved by the testimony of faith, received not the promise),
Then Jephthah said to the responsible men of Gilead, If you take me back to make war against the children of Ammon, and if with the help of Jehovah I overcome them, will you make me your head?
Unless perhaps thou art better than Balak the son of Sephor king of Moab: Or canst show that he strove against Israel and fought against him,
And thou hast showed this day how that thou hast dealt well with me; forasmuch as when Jehovah had delivered me into thy hand, thou killedst me not.
So the sin of the young men was very great in the sight of Yahweh, because the men treated the oblation of Yahweh with contempt.
Then Saul said to him, "Whose son are you, young man?" And David said, "I am the son of your servant Jesse the Bethlehemite."
So the people sent to Shiloh; and they brought from there the ark of the covenant of Yahweh of Armies, who sits above the cherubim: and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were there with the ark of the covenant of God.
And all the seven days of the feast she went on weeping over him; and on the seventh day he gave her the answer, because she gave him no peace; and she sent word of it to the children of her people.
And I delight in you to know, brethren, that the things concerning me, rather to a advancement of the good news have come,
Israel and the Philistines put the battle in array, army against army.
And they told Jotham, and he went up and stood on the top of Mount Gerizim, and he cried out loud and said to them, "Listen to me, lords of Shechem, so that God may listen to you.
He came to the sheep pens by the way, where there was a cave; and Saul went in to refresh himself. Now David and his men were staying in the innermost parts of the cave.
She got up and bowed down with her face to the ground and said, "Here is your female servant, as a slave to wash the feet of my lord's servants."
When you come there you will come to a people living without thought of danger; and the land is wide, and God hast given it into your hands: a place where there is everything on earth for man's needs.
Then Abimelech departing from thence came to the village of Thebes, which he surrounded and besieged with his army.
And Saul saith, `Thus doth God do, and thus doth He add, for thou dost certainly die, Jonathan.'
To the great meeting and church of the first of those who are named in heaven, and to God the judge of all, and to the spirits of good men made complete,
For blood of bulls and goats incapable of taking away sins.
And the children of Benjamin came together from all their towns to Gibeah, to go to war with the children of Israel.
So then, return and go in peace, so that you do not do something that displeases the rulers of the Philistines."
And he said, Let me go, I pray thee; for our family hath a sacrifice in the city; and my brother, he hath commanded me to be there: and now, if I have found favor in thine eyes, let me get away, I pray thee, and see my brethren. Therefore he cometh not unto the king's table.
But behold, there arose a insurrection in Ephraim. And passing towards the north, they said to Jephte: When thou wentest to fight against the children of Ammon, why wouldst thou not call us, that we might go with thee? Therefore we will burn thy house.
And he saith unto him, `O, my lord, wherewith do I save Israel? lo, my chief weak in Manasseh, and I the least in the house of my father.'
And when the men of Israel that were on the other side of the valley, and they that were beyond the Jordan, saw that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook the cities, and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
And told him that Saul had slain the priests of Jehovah.
I have sent him therefore the more diligently, that seeing him ye may again rejoice, and that *I* might be the less sorrowful.
And blessed be thy discernment, and blessed be thou, who hast kept me this day from coming with bloodshed, and from avenging myself with mine own hand.
And carry these ten little cheeses to the tribune: and go see thy brethren, if they are well: and learn with whom they are placed.
He told her all his heart, and said to her, "No razor hast ever come on my head; for I have been a Nazirite to God from my mother's womb. If I am shaved, then my strength will go from me, and I will become weak, and be like any other man."
And the Holy Spirit also doth testify this to us. For after that he said:
and saith unto the sons of Israel, `Thus said Jehovah, the God of Israel, I have brought up Israel out of Egypt, and I deliver you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all the kingdoms who are oppressing you;
So they gathered to Mizpah and drew water and poured it out before Yahweh. They fasted on that day and said there, "We have sinned against Yahweh!" So Samuel judged the Israelites at Mizpah.
without father, without mother, without genealogy; having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but assimilated to the Son of God, abides a priest continually.
If he is able to fight with me and he defeats me, then we will be your servants; but if I prevail over him and defeat him, then you will be our servants and you will serve us."
And Yahweh turned to him and said, "Go in this your strength, and you will deliver Israel from the palm of Midian. Did I not send you?"
And the Spirit of Yahweh began to stir him in the camp of Dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.
And the elders of the company say, `What do we do to the remnant for wives -- for the women have been destroyed out of Benjamin?'
Then the Philistine came on, getting nearer and nearer to David, with his shield bearer in before him.
And the man said, Israel went in flight from the Philistines, and there hast been great destruction among the people, and your two sons, Hophni and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of God hast been taken.
For if the blood of goats and of oxen, and the ashes of a heifer being sprinkled, sanctify such as are defiled, to the cleansing of the flesh:
and Michal taketh the teraphim, and layeth on the bed, and the mattress of goats' she hath put his head, and covereth with a garment.
By so much, Jesus hast become the collateral of a better covenant.
and they shall not teach each his neighbor, and each his brother, saying, Know thou Jehovah, because they shall all know Me from the small one of them unto the great one of them,
And Jonathan said to David, Go in peace, forasmuch as we have sworn both of us in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever. And he arose and departed: and Jonathan went into the city.
He said to his servants that stood about him: Hear me now, ye sons of Jemini: will the son of Isai give everyone of you fields, and vineyards, and make you all tribunes, and centurions:
And setting them on fire he let foxes go, that they may run about hither and thither. And they presently went into the standing grain of the Philistines. Which being set on fire, both the grain that was already carried together, and that which was yet standing, was all burnt, insomuch, that the flame consumed also the vineyards and the oliveyards.
And the lords of the Philistines passed on by hundreds, and by of thousands, but David and his men passed on in the rearward with Achish.
And as he talked with them, behold, there came up the champion, the Philistine of Gath, Goliath by name, out of the ranks of the Philistines, and spoke according to the same words; and David heard .
And early in the morning they gat up, and after worshipping before Jehovah they went back to Ramah, to their house: and Elkanah had connection with his wife; and Jehovah kept her in mind.
And so, as the Holy Spirit says, To-day if you let his voice come to your ears,
And thou shalt not only while yet I live show me the kindness of Jehovah, that I die not:
Dalila bound him again with these, and cried out: The Philistines are upon thee, Samson, there being an ambush prepared for him in the chamber. But he broke the bands like threads of webs.
and the watchers see a man coming out from the city, and say to him, `Shew us, we pray thee, the entrance of the city, and we have done with thee kindness.'
After that thou shalt come to the hill of God, where are the outposts of the Philistines; and it shall come to pass, when thou comest thither, into the city, that thou shalt meet a company of prophets coming down from the high place with lute and tambour and pipe and harp before them; and they themselves prophesying.
Of the men of Israel also, besides the children of Benjamin, were found four hundred thousand that drew sword, and were prepared to fight.
And her father said, It seemed to me that you had only hate for her; so I gave her to your friend: but is not her younger sister fairer than she be? so please take her in place of the other.
Are they not all spirits engaged in special service, sent on assignment for the sake of those who are going to inherit salvation?
And he restored them to his mother: and she took two hundred pieces of silver and gave them to the silversmith, to make of them a graven and a molten god, which was in the house of Michas.
And the ravagers came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies: one company turned the way of Ophrah, into the land of Shual;
then I said, Lo, I come, (in a roll of the book it hath been written concerning me,) to do, O God, Thy will;'
He arose early in the morning on the fifth day to depart; and the young lady's father said, "Please strengthen your heart and rely until the day declines"; and they both ate.
Now his daughter-in-law, the wife of Phinehas, was pregnant and about to give birth. When she heard the news concerning the capture of the ark of God and that her father-in-law and her husband had died, she went into labor and gave birth, because her labor pains came upon her.
looking on Jesus, a God and finisher of faith, who having joy set before him, endured the cross, despising the shame, and now sitteth on the right hand of the throne of God.
And Samuel became older, and Jehovah was with him and let not one of his words be without effect.
And he saith unto Zebah and unto Zalmunna, `How -- the men whom ye slew in Tabor?' and they say, `As thou -- so they, one -- as the form of the king's sons.'
and unto the Son; `Thy throne, O God, to the age of age; a scepter of righteousness the scepter of thy reign;
But one hast somewhere testified, saying, "What is man, that you think of him? Or the son of man, that you care for him?
And he said to her, What is his form? And she said, An old man comes up; and he is covered with a robe. And Saul knew that it was Samuel, and he stooped with his face to the ground, and bowed himself.
And Saul clothed David with his garments, and put a helmet of brass upon his head, and armed him with a coat of mail.
David lived with Achish at Gath, he and his men, every man with his household, even David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelitess, Nabal's wife.
"So then, if you have acted in good faith and sincerity in making Abimelech king, and if you have dealt well with Jerub-Baal and his house, and have dealt with him according to his accomplishments
whose end destruction, whose god the belly, and whose glory in their shame, who the things on earth are minding.
Then said Samuel to the people, Come, and let us go to Gilgal, and renew the kingdom there.
Why do you kick at my sacrifice and at my thereof, which I have commanded in my habitation, and honor your sons above me, to make yourselves fat with the best of all the offerings of Israel my people?'
And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and they together defeated the Chanaanites that dwelt in Sephaath, and slew them. And the name of the city was called Horma, that is, Anathema.
And Saul said to his servant: Behold, we will go: but what shall we carry to the man of God? the bread is spent in our bags: and we have no present to make to the man of God, nor anything at all.
and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
Of zeal, persecuting the church; touching the righteousness which is in the law, blameless.
And the people said to Samuel, Who was it who said, Is Saul to be our king? give the men up, so that we may put them to death.
having this confidence I know that I will remain, yes, and remain with you all, for your progress and joy in the faith,
In faith died all these, not having received the promises, but from afar having seen them, and having been persuaded, and having saluted , and having confessed that strangers and sojourners they are upon the earth,
Then came David to Nob to Ahimelech the priest: and Ahimelech was afraid at the meeting of David, and said unto him, Why art thou alone, and no man with thee?
And my God will fulfill your every need according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
And Samuel said to the people: Fear not, you have done all this evil; But yet depart not from following Jehovah, but serve Jehovah with all your heart.
And in the same place he says again, They will not come into my rest.
Neither did Ephraim drive out the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer; but the Canaanites dwelt in Gezer among them.
Then the sign went up out of the village in the pillar of smoke, and the Benjamites, turning back, saw all the village going up in smoke to heaven.
So Gideon, and the hundred men that were with him, came unto the outside of the camp in the beginning of the middle watch; and they had but newly set the guard: and they blew the trumpets, and brake the pitchers that were in their hands.
Then the woman came and told her husband, saying, A man of God came unto me, and his countenance was like the countenance of an angel of God, very terrible: but I asked him not whence he was, neither told he me his name:
Let the love of the brotherhood abide in you.
So he came to the men of Succoth and said, Here are Zebah and Zalmunna, on account of whom you made sport of me, saying, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna even now in your hand, that we are to give bread to your army who are overcome with weariness?
And he found a new jawbone of an ass, and put forth his hand, and took it, and slew a thousand men therewith.
He said, 'Please let me go, for our family hast a sacrifice in the city. My brother hast commanded me to be there. Now, if I have found favor in your eyes, please let me go away and see my brothers.' Therefore he hast not come to the king's table."
But the men were very good unto us, and we were not hurt, neither missed we anything, as long as we were with them, when we were in the fields;
And the men of Israel said to Gideon, Rule over us, both thou, and thy son, and thy son's son also; for thou hast saved us from the hand of Midian.
And David saith, `Jehovah, the God of Israel, Thy servant hath certainly heard that Saul is seeking to come in unto Keilah, to destroy the city on mine account.
But a certain fearful expectation of justice, and heat of fire about to devour the adversaries.
He had thirty sons, and thirty daughters whom he sent to other places, and he bought thirty wives from other places for his sons. And he was judge of Israel for seven years.
Now the God of peace, that brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, that great shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant,
And there was sore war against the Philistines all the days of Saul; and Saul saw any mighty man, or any valiant man, he took him to himself.
And Zebah saith -- also Zalmunna -- `Rise thou, and fall upon us; for as the man -- his might;' and Gideon riseth, and slayeth Zebah and Zalmunna, and taketh their round ornaments which on the necks of their camels.
And Saul said, I will give him her, that she may be a snare to him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be upon him. And Saul said to David, Thou shalt this day be my son-in-law a second time.
And it came to pass, as she multiplied prayers before Jehovah, that Heli observed her mouth.
And Samuel died, and all Israel was gathered together, and they mourned for him, and buried him in his house in Ramatha. And David rose and went down into the wilderness of Pharan.
And cutting off his head and taking away his war-dress, they sent word into the land of the Philistines round about, to take the news to their gods and to the people.
And they said to him: Come thou and be our prince, and fight against the children of Ammon.
for we also are having good news proclaimed, even as they, but the word heard did not profit them, not being mixed with faith in those who heard,
And David saith, `Do the possessors of Keilah shut me up, and my men, into the hand of Saul?' And Jehovah saith, `They shut up.'
Saul said to his servants, "Provide me now a man who can play well, and bring him to me."
But David laid up these words in his heart, and was exceedingly afraid at the face of Achis the king of Geth.
And they say, `Who is one out of the tribes of Israel who hath not come up unto Jehovah to Mizpeh?' and lo, none hath come in unto the camp from Jabesh-Gilead -- unto the assembly.
And she took him up with her when she had weaned him, with three bullocks, and one ephah of flour, and a flask of wine, and brought him to the house of Jehovah to Shiloh; and the boy was young.
And it cometh to pass, in the coming in of David and his men to Ziklag, on the third day, that the Amalekite have push unto the south, and unto Ziklag, and smite Ziklag, and burn it with fire,
And the olive-tree replied, 'Should I stop producing my oil, which by me gods and men are honored, to go sway over the trees?'
And Jephthah vowed a vow unto Jehovah, and said, If thou shalt without fail deliver the children of Ammon into my hands,
Not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day when I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; because they continued not in my covenant, and I regarded them not, saith Jehovah.
So Jehovah the God of Israel destroyed the Amorrhite, his people of Israel fighting against him, and wilt thou now possess this land?
And the Philistines seized him, and put out his eyes, and brought him down to Gazah, and bound him with fetters of bronze; and he had to scatter in the prison-house.
Judah went up, and Yahweh delivered the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hand. They struck ten thousand men in Bezek.
(for they were not able to bear what was enjoined: And if a beast should touch the mountain, it shall be stoned;
Country towns were no more in Israel, *** were no more, till you, Deborah came up, till you came up as a mother in Israel.
And all the people were with Saul, about twenty thousand men, and the fight was captain through all the hill-country of Ephraim. but Saul made a great error that day, by putting peoples under an oath, saying, Let that man be cursed who takes food before evening comes and I have given punishment to those who are against me. So the people had not a taste of food.
Now these are the gold images which the Philistines sent as a sin-offering to Jehovah; one for Ashdod, one for Gaza, one for Ashkelon, one for Gath, one for Ekron,
And Achimelech answering the king, said: And who amongst all thy servants is so faithful as David, who is the king's son in law, and goeth forth at thy bidding, and is honorable in thy house?
Wherefore, leaving the word of the beginning of the Christ, let us go on [to what belongs] to full growth, not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works and faith in God,
Abimelech and the companies that were with him rushed forward, and stood at the entrance of the gate of the city; and the two companies rushed on all who were in the field, and struck them.
His concubine who was in Shechem also bore him a son, and he named him Abimelech.
And David's two wives were taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal of Nabal the Carmelite.
'Curse Meroz,' says the angel of Yahweh; 'curse bitterly itself inhabitants, because they did not come to the help of Yahweh, to the help of Yahweh against the mighty.'
Certain, indeed, even through envy and contention, and certain also through good-will, do preach the Christ;
But this one, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins for all time, sat down at the right hand of God,
They will be rolled up like a coverlet, even like a robe, and they will be changed: but you are the same and your years will have no end.
And a while after, when the days of the wheat harvest were at hand, Samson came, meaning to visit his wife, and he brought her a male of the flock. And when he would have gone into her chamber as usual, her father would not suffer him, speaking:
And he goeth -- he also -- to Ramath, and cometh in unto the great well which in Sechu, and asketh, and saith, `Where Samuel and David?' and saith, `Lo, in Naioth in Ramah.'
In Israel's dwelling in Heshbon and in itself towns, and in Aroer and in itself towns, and in all the cities which on the sides of the Arnon three hundred years -- and wherefore have ye not delivered them in that time?
(for those were made priests without an oath, but this one was made a priest with an oath by him who says of him, Jehovah gave his oath, which he will not take back, that you are a priest for ever);
The valiant men ceased, and rested in Israel: until Debbora arose, a mother arose in Israel.
Jonathan said to David, "By Yahweh, the God of Israel, when I have sounded my father about this time tomorrow, or the third day, behold, if there is good toward David, won't I then send to you, and disclose it to you?
They abandoned Yahweh, and they served Baal and the Ashtaroth.
Then the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Jephthah, and he passed through Gilead and Manasseh, and passed to Mizpeh of Gilead, and from Mizpeh of Gilead he passed over to the children of Ammon.
And you are to say to him that I will send punishment on his family for ever, for the sin which he had knowledge of; because his sons have been cursing God and he had no control over them.
And she said unto her servants, Pass on before me; behold, I come after you. But she told not her husband Nabal.
And he went thither to Naioth in Ramah: and the Spirit of God was upon him also, and he went on, and prophesied, until he came to Naioth in Ramah.
I beg of Evodia, and I beseech Syntyche, to be of one mind in the Lord.
and Yahweh sent you on a journey, and said, 'Go, and utterly destroy the sinners the Amalekites, and fight against them until they are consumed.'
So they passed on and went their way; and the sun went down on them near Gibeah, which belongs to Benjamin.
And the Philistines, full of fear, said, God hast come into their tents. And they said, Trouble is ours! for never before hast such a thing been seen.
Let us consider how to provoke one another to love and good works,
And we desire that every one of you show forth the same earnest care to the accomplishing of hope unto the end:
For he testifieth, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchisedec.
For if the word which came through the angels was fixed, and in the past every evil act against God's orders was given itself full punishment;
But there was a strong tower in the midst of the city, and thither fled all the men and women, all the citizens of the city; and they shut it behind them, and went up to the roof of the tower.
And Saul saith, `Be ye scattered among the people, and ye have said to them, Bring ye nigh unto me each his ox, and each his sheep; and ye have slain in this place, and eaten, and ye do not sin against even Jehovah, to eat with the blood.' And all the people bring nigh each his ox, in his hand, that night, and slaughter there.
and Jesse said to his son David, Take now for your brothers an ephah of this dry grain and these ten cakes of bread, and go quickly with them to the tents to your brothers;
And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him, and gave it to David, and his dress, even to his sword, and to his bow, and to his girdle.
And when he had named the ark of God, he fell from his stool backwards by the door, and broke his neck, and died. For he was an old man, and far advanced in years: and he judged Israel forty years.
And Saul gave his servants orders saying, Have talk with David secretly and say to him, See how the king hast delight in you, and how you are loved by all his servants: then be the king's son-in-law.
Do I lack madmen that you have brought this one to act like a madman before me? Should this one enter my household?"
For the two wives also of David were taken captive, Achinoam the Jezrahelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal of Carmel.
For this Melchizedek, the king of Salem, a priest of the Most High God, who gave Abraham his blessing, meeting him when he came back after putting the kings to death,
But if we are speaking in this way, dear friends, we are reproved by better things concerning you, and belonging to salvation.
Now Heber the Kenite, which was of the children of Hobab the father-in-law of Moses, had set apart himself from the Kenite, and pitched his tent unto the plain of Zaanaim, which is by Kedesh.
We have straw and hay for provender of the asses, and bread and wine for the use of myself and of thy handmaid, and of the servant that is with me: we want nothing but lodging.
And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, and were drawn away from the city; and they began to smite of the people, and kill, as at the other times, in the highways, of which one goeth up to the house of God, and the other to Gibeah in the field, about thirty men of Israel.
And David left neither man nor woman alive, to bring to Gath, for he said, Lest they should tell of us, saying, So did David. And such was his custom as long as he abode in the country of the Philistines.
Then Jesse made Shammah come before him. And he said, Jehovah hast not taken this one.
'Curse Meroz,' said Yahweh's angel. 'Curse bitterly itself inhabitants, because they didn't come to help Yahweh, to help Yahweh against the mighty.'
For this reason God hast put him in the chief place and hast given to him the name which is greater than every name;
By faith also Sarah herself received strength for conception of seed, and beyond a seasonable age; since she counted him faithful who promised.
(Now the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel were gone up to Mizpeh.) Then said the children of Israel, Tell us, how was this wickedness?
Then a champion went out from the camps of the Philistines, whose name was Goliath from Gath. His height was six cubits and a span.
and we are persuaded, concerning you, beloved, the things that are better, and accompanying salvation, though even thus we speak,
As Samuel was offering up the burnt-offering, the Philistines came near to battle against Israel; but Yahweh thundered with a great thunder on that day on the Philistines, and confused them; and they were struck down before Israel.
And they said, How is the rest of Benjamin to be given offspring so that one tribe of Israel may not be put out of existence,
And David saith to Ahimelech, `And is there not here under thy hand spear or sword? for neither my sword nor my vessels have I taken in my hand, for the matter of the king was urgent.'
Now therefore, my lord, as Yahweh lives, and as your soul lives, since Yahweh hast withheld you from blood guiltiness, and from avenging yourself with your own hand, now therefore let your enemies, and those who seek evil to my lord, be as Nabal.
And the man went into the land of the Hittite, and built a city, and called the name thereof Luz: which is the name thereof unto this day.
The mountains melted from before Jehovah, even that Sinai from before Jehovah, the God of Israel.
So Abimelech resided at Arumah, and Zebul drove out Gaal and his relatives from living in Shechem.
of whom it was said -- `In Isaac shall a seed be called to thee;'
And they walked through the wilderness, and went round the land of Edom and the land of Moab, and came by the east of the land of Moab, and encamped beyond the of the Arnon, but came not within the border of Moab, for the Arnon is the border of Moab.
And they smite on that day among the Philistines from Michmash to Aijalon, and the people are very weary,
When David and his men came to the city, they saw, and it was burned with fire, and their wives, their sons and their daughters had been taken captive.
Now to God and our Father be the glory Amen.
And the children of Benjamin were numbered at that time out of the cities, twenty-six thousand men that drew sword, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, who were numbered seven hundred chosen men.
yes, indeed, and I count all things to be loss, because of the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, because of whom of all things I suffered loss, and do count them to be wilt, that Christ I may gain, and be found in him,
When Zebul the commander of the city heard the words of Gaal son of Ebed, he became angry,
only that the generations of the children of Israel might know, to teach them war, at least those who knew nothing of it before:
in itself being said, `To-day, if His voice ye may hear, ye may not harden your hearts in the provocation,'
Still, to go on in the flesh is more necessary because of you.
But one of the young men told Abigail, Nabal's wife, saying, "Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to Salute our master; and he insulted them.
But as Yahweh lives, the God of Israel who hast came upon me from harming you, if you had not hurried and come to meet me, surely there would not have been one male left alive for Nabal by the light of morning!"
And Jehovah said to Gideon, So great is the number of your people, that if I give the Midianites into their hands they will be uplifted in pride over me and will say, I myself have been my saviour.
But the boy didn't know anything. Only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
When the army came to the forest, look! There was honey flowing, but no one put his hand to his mouth, for the army was afraid of the solemn oath.
And the Ziphites came up to Saul to Gibeah, saying, Does not David hide himself with us in strongholds in the wood, on the hill of Hachilah, which is on the south of the waste?
And Eli very old, and hath heard all that his sons do to all Israel, and how that they lie with the women who are assembling the opening of the tent of meeting,
But he said unto me, Behold, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son; and now drink no wine nor strong drink, neither eat any unclean thing; for the child shall be a Nazirite to God from the womb to the day of his death.
By faith, Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau, even concerning things to come.
But in these [there is] a calling to mind of sins yearly.
But Barak pursued after the chariots, and after the host, unto Harosheth of the Gentiles: and all the host of Sisera fell upon the edge of the sword; and there was not a man left.
without father, without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, and being made like to the Son of God, doth remain a priest continually.
Then the children of Dan went on their way; and when Micah saw that they were stronger than he, he went back to his house.
Have we need of madmen, that you have brought in this fellow, to play the madman in my presence? shall this man come into my house?
And his father-in-law, the damsel's father, retained him, and he abode with him three days; and they ate and drank, and lodged there.
Brethren, be imitators together of me, and mark them that walk so as ye have us for an ensample.
And the men of Israel went out of Mizpah, and pursued the Philistines, and smote them, as far as below Beth-car.
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
After him Abesan of Beth-lehem judged Israel:
Now there was a young man living in Beth-lehem-judah, of the family of Judah and a Levite, who was not a townsman of the place.
But the people took of the spoil sheep and oxen, as the first-fruits of those things that were slain, to offer sacrifice to Jehovah their God in Galgal.
And Saul saith, `Blessed ye of Jehovah, for ye have pity on me;
And let this thereof, which your servant gives to my lord, be given to the young men who are with my lord.
And he lifteth up his eyes, and seeth the man, the traveller, in the broad place of the city, and the aged man saith, `Whither goest thou? and whence comest thou?'
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they said to Samson's wife, Persuade thy husband, that he may explain to us the riddle, lest we burn thee and thy father's house with fire. Have ye invited us to beat down us,is it not ?
And the Spirit of Jehovah turned aside from Saul, and a spirit of sadness from even Jehovah, terrified him;
Pray for us, for we are persuaded that we have a good conscience desiring to live honorably in all things.
Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had mourned for him, and buried him in Ramah, even in his own city. Saul had put away those who had familiar spirits the wizards, out of the land.
And he waited seven days according to the word of Samuel, I and Samuel came not to Galgal, and the people slipt away from him.
And Gideon goeth up the way of those who tabernacle in tents, on the east of Nobah and Jogbehah, and smiteth the camp, and the camp was confident;
And Israel learned of Yahweh (In those days the ark of the covenant of God was there,
And when the morning came, Jonathan went into the field, according to the word with David, and a little boy with him.
At your going in to the city so ye do find him, before he doth go up in to the high place to eat; for the people do not eat till his coming, for he doth bless the sacrifice; afterwards they eat, who are called, and now, go up, for this time ye find him.'
The men of Israel and Judah got up, raised the war cry, and pursued the Philistines as far as the valley and up to the gates of Ekron. So the slain of the Philistines fell on the way to Shaaraim up to Gath and as far as Ekron.
And almost all things are by the law purged with blood; and without shedding of blood is no remission.
And Saul swore unto her by Jehovah, saying, Jehovah liveth, there shall no punishment happen to thee for this thing.
So Christ, having at his first coming taken on himself the sins of men, will be seen a second time, without sin, by those who are waiting for him, for their salvation.
Be not hearer of hospitality; for by it some have unawares entertained angels.
without father, without mother, without descent, having neither beginning of days, nor end of life; but made like unto the Son of God; abideth a priest continually.
So David and Abishai came down to the army by night: and Saul was sleeping inside the ring of carts with his spear planted in the earth by his head: and Abner and the people were sleeping round him.
Then all the trees said to the thorn, You come and be king over us.
To which of the angels did God say at any time, You are my Son, this day I have given you being? or, I will be his Father, and he will be my Son?
Then the five men departed, and came to Laish, and saw the people that were therein, how they dwelt careless, after the manner of the Sidonians, quiet and secure; and there was no magistrate in the land, that might put them to shame in any thing; and they were far from the Sidonians, and had no business with any man.
"The kings came and fought, then the kings of Canaan fought at Taanach by the waters of Megiddo. They took no plunder of silver.
Wherefore, having left the word of the beginning of the Christ, unto the perfection we may advance, not again a foundation lying in reformation from dead works, and of faith on God,
The man Elkanah, and all his house, went up to offer to Yahweh the yearly sacrifice, and his vow.
And Saul cometh in unto a city of Amalek, and layeth wait in a valley;
Saul also sent messengers unto David's house, to watch him, and to slay him in the morning; and Michal David's wife told him, saying, If thou save not thy life to night, to-morrow thou shalt be slain.
that we also may be like all the nations, and that our king may judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles."
And when David had made an end of speaking these words to Saul, Saul said: Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
Because you did not obey Yahweh and did not carry out the fierce anger of his wrath against Amalek, therefore Yahweh hast done this thing to you today.
Let us therefore use diligence to enter into that rest, that no one may fall after the same example of not Hearkening to the word.
but ye are risen up against my father's house this day, and have slain his sons, seventy men, upon one stone, and have made Abimelech, the son of his handmaid, king over the citizens of Shechem, because he is your brother;
But Samuel ministered before Jehovah, being a child, girded with a linen ephod.
David answered and said, "Here is the king's spear; let one of the young men come over and take it.
Then said Saul to his servant, But behold, if we go, what shall we bring the man? for the bread is spent in our vessels, and there is not a present to bring to the man of God: what have we?
The bows of the men of war are broken, and the feeble are clothed with strength.
Benjamin returned at that time; and they gave them the women whom they had saved alive of the women of Jabesh Gilead. There still weren't enough for them.
Go, send up your cry for help to the gods of your selection; let them be your saviours in the time of your trouble.
And when they had made an offering of the ox, they took the child to Eli.
As he saith also in another place, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchisedec.
But the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Gideon, and he blew the trumpet; and Abiezer was gathered after him.
So he went up from there to Penuel and made the same request to the men of Penuel; but they gave him the same answer as the men of Succoth had given.
So Manoah took a kid with a meal-offering, and offered it upon a rock unto Jehovah; and the angel did wonderously; and Manoah and his wife looked on.
Then Deborah said to Barak, Up! for to-day Jehovah hast given Sisera into your hands: hast not Jehovah gone out before you? So Barak went down from Mount Tabor and ten thousand men after him.
lest there be any sexually immoral person, or profane person, like Esau, who sold his birthright for one meal.
And David, with four hundred men, went upon: but two hundred of them were overcome with weariness, and not able to go across the stream.
and Jehovah sendeth thee in the way, and saith, Go, and thou hast devoted the sinners, the Amalekite, and fought against them till they are consumed;
Why sittest thou between two farthest that thou mayest hear the bleatings of the sheep? Ruben being divided against himself, there was found a strife of courageous men.
And the Philistines were gathered together, and came and encamped in Sunam: and Saul also gathered together all Israel, and came to Gelboe.
And they turned aside there to enter and to spend the night at Gibeah. And they went and sat in the open square of the city, but no one took them in to spend the night.
because on account of the work of the Christ he drew near to death, having hazarded the life that he might fill up your deficiency of service unto me.
And she saith to him, `Give to me a blessing; when the south land thou hast given me -- then thou hast given to me springs of water; and Caleb giveth to her the upper springs and the lower springs.
and we -- we are not able to give to them wives out of our daughters, for the sons of Israel have sworn, saying, Cursed he who is giving a wife to Benjamin.'
Now the day before Saul came, the word of God had come to Samuel, saying,
And they sat down, and did eat and drink both of them together: for the damsel's father had said unto the man, Be pleased, I pray thee, and tarry all night, and let thy heart be merry.
And there was a miracle in the camp, through the fields; yea and all the people of their garrison, who had gone out to plunder, were amazed, and the earth afraid; and it happened as a sign from God.
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and have served the Baalim and Ashtaroth: but now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.
And Saul sought to smite David even to the wall with the javelin: but he slipped away out of Saul's presence, and he smote the spear into the wall: and David fled, and escaped that night.
and he cometh in, and lo, Eli is sitting on the throne by the side of the way, watching, for his heart hath been trembling for the ark of God, and the man hath come in to declare in the city, and all the city crieth out.
And Saul answering, said: Am not I a son of Jemini of the least tribe of Israel, and my kindred the last among all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? Why then hast thou spoken this word to me?
But my righteous one will live by faith, and if he shrinks back, my soul is not well pleased with him."
The men of Israel said to Gideon, "Rule over us, both you and your sons, and your sons' son, for you have delivered us from the hand of Midian.
And I will draw unto thee to the river Kishion Sisera, the captain of Jabin's army, with his chariots and his multitude; and I will deliver him into thy hand.
And when she pressed him much, and continually hung upon him for many days, giving him no time to rest, his soul fainted away, and was wearied even until death.
The Philistines fought, and Israel was defeated, and each man fled to his tent. There was a very great slaughter; for thirty thousand footmen of Israel fell.
And he demolished the tower of Phanuel, and slew the men of the city.
For indeed he longed after you all: and was sad, for that you had heard that he was sick.
and that the Most of the brethren, trusting in Lord through my bonds, dare more abundantly to speak the word of God fearlessly.
And a great number of the people had gone over the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead? but Saul was still in Gilgal, and all the people went after him shaking in fear.
though I also have [cause of] trust in flesh. If any other one doth think to have trust in flesh, I more;
And Jephthah said unto the elders of Gilead, If ye bring me home again to fight against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah deliver them before me, shall I be your head?
And Jonathan said: Behold, we will go over to these men. And when we shall be seen by them,
Now when David and his men were come to Siceleg on the third day, the Amalecites had made an invasion on the south side upon Siceleg, and had smitten Siceleg, and burnt it with fire.
And it cometh to pass, when he finisheth to speak unto Saul, that the soul of Jonathan hath been bound to the soul of David, and Jonathan loveth him as his own soul.
And thou shalt go down before me to Galgal, (for I will come down to thee, that thou mayest offer an oblation and sacrifice victims of peace: seven days shalt thou wait, O till I come to thee, and I will show thee what thou art to do.
And there is nothing made which is not completely clear to him; there is nothing covered, but all things are open to the eyes of him with whom we have to do.
And Ehud came unto him; and he was sitting in a summer parlour, which he had for himself alone. And Ehud said, I have a message from God unto thee. And he arose out of his seat.
And when be had taken it in his hands, he went on eating: and coming to his father and mother, he gave them of it, and they ate: but he would not tell them, that he had taken the honey from the body of the lion.
And they sent men to the people living in Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have sent back the ark of Jehovah; come and take it up to your country.
And he said to them, Out of the eater came forth food, And out of the strong came forth sweetness. And they could not in three days explain the riddle.
Saul said to his uncle, "He told us plainly that the donkeys were found." But concerning the matter of the kingdom, of which Samuel spoke, he didn't tell him.
And it was told Saul that David had fled to Gath; and he sought no more for him.
But Michol the other daughter of Saul loved David. And it was told Saul, and it pleased him.
And all the men of Israel who had hidden themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim, when they heard that the Philistines fled, even they also followed hard after them in the battle.
And he is speaking with them, and lo, a man of the duellists is coming up, Goliath the Philistine his name, of Gath, out of the ranks of the Philistines, and he speaketh according to those words, and David heareth;
And Jehovah said to him: I will be with thee; and thou shalt cut off Madian as one man.
For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain:
They troubled and oppressed the children of Israel that year. For eighteen years, they oppressed all the children of Israel that were beyond the the Jordan in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
and said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, why is this come to pass in Israel, that there should be to-day one tribe lacking in Israel?
He returned the eleven hundred pieces of silver to his mother, and his mother thought, "I will certainly consecrate to Yahweh the pieces of silver from my hand for my son to make an idol of cast metal; now then, I will return them to you."
Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty warrior; he was the son of a prostitute, and Gilead was his father.
They turned and fled toward the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon; and they gleaned five thousand men of them in the highways, and followed hard after them to Gidom, and struck two thousand men of them.
The land had rest forty years, then Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
and he saith, `Why this -- my lord is pursuing after his servant? for what have I done, and what in my hand evil?
The men of Judah said, "Why have you come up against us?" They said, "We have come up to bind Samson, to do to him as he hast done to us."
(Now Saul had given his daughter Michal, David's wife, to Palti the son of Laish, who was from Gallim.)
And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanites; Hittites and Amorites and Perizzites and Hivites and Jebusite;
and she calleth the youth I-Chabod, saying, `Honour hath journeyed from Israel,' because of the taking of the ark of God, and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
That all of you have made designs against me, and not one of you gave me word when my son made your peace with the son of Jesse, and not one of you hast pity for me or hast made my eyes open to the fact that my servant hast been moved by my son against me, as at this day?
And the name of that place was called, The place of weepers, or of tears: and there they offered sacrifices to Jehovah.
And Saul sendeth unto Jesse, saying, `Let David, I pray thee, stand before me, for he hath found favor in my eyes.'
The torrent of Kishion swept them away, that ancient torrent, the torrent Kishon. My soul, thou hast trodden down strength!
And the house of Joseph go up -- even they -- to Beth-El, and even Jehovah, with them;
And the number of them that lapped, putting their hand to their mouth, were three hundred men; but all the rest of the people bowed down upon their knees to drink water.
Because thou obeyedst not the voice of Jehovah, nor executedst his fierce wrath upon Amalek, therefore hath Jehovah done this thing unto thee this day.
But Jonathan didn't hear when his father commanded the people with the oath. Therefore he put out the end of the rod who was in his hand, and dipped it in the honeycomb, and put his hand to his mouth, and his eyes brightened.
This hope we have as an anchor of the soul, a hope both sure and steadfast and entering into that which is within the veil;
And the angel of Yahweh went up from Gilgal to Bokim and said, "I brought you up from Egypt, and I brought you to the land that I had promised to your ancestors. I said, 'I will never break my covenant with you.
Yahweh sent a prophet to Israel, and he said to them, "Thus says Yahweh the God of Israel: 'I brought you up from Egypt; I brought you from the house of slavery.
Then Jephthah came back to his house in Mizpah, and his daughter came out, meeting him on his way with music and with dances; she was his only child; he had no other sons or daughters.
For he spake in a certain place of the seventh day on this wise, And God did rest the seventh day from all his works.
For they that say such things declare plainly that they seek a country.
and David goeth up and his men, and they gore unto the Geshurite, and the Gerizite, and the Amalekite, (for they are inhabitants of the land from of old), as thou goest in to Shur and unto the land of Egypt,
And the elders of Gilead said unto Jephthah, even Jehovah, be witness amongst us, if we do not so according to thy words!
And the men of Israel have been distressed on that day, and Saul adjureth the people, saying, `Cursed the man who eateth food till the evening, and I have been avenged of mine enemies;' and none of the people hath tasted food.
And the Philistines, hearing the noise of their cry, said, What is this great cry among the tents of the Hebrews? Then it became clear to them that the ark of Jehovah had come to the tent-circle.
that ye may not become sluggard, but imitators of those who through faith and patient endurance are inheriting the promises.
For both he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified are all from one, for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brothers,
After Abimelech, Tola son of Puah son of Dod, a man of Issachar, rose up to deliver Israel; and he was living at Shamir in the hill-country of Ephraim.
But Samson slept till midnight, and then rising he took both the doors of the gate, with the posts thereof, and the bolt, and laying them on his shoulders, carried them up to the top of the ascent, which looketh towards Hebron.
And the Spirit of Jehovah will come on you with power, and you will be acting like a prophet with them, and will be changed into another man.
Because it hast been granted to you on behalf of Christ, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer on his behalf,
When they had come, he looked at Eliab, and said, "Surely Yahweh's anointed is before him."
And Samuel called the people together unto Jehovah to Mizpeh;
And it answered: Can I leave my fatness, which both gods and men make use of, to come to be promoted among the trees?
But if I say this to the young man, 'Look, the arrows are beyond you,' go, for Yahweh hast sent you away.
Then the men of Israel said to Gideon, Be our ruler, you and your son and your son's son after him; for you have been our Saviour from the hands of Midian.
And the thing is evil in the sight of Samuel, when they have said, `Give to us a king to judge us;' and Samuel prayeth unto Jehovah.
Now when Saul had taken the kingdom over Israel, he fought against all his enemies on every side, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines. Wherever he turned himself, he defeated them.
And he went to Najoth in Ramatha, and the spirit of Jehovah came upon him also, and he went on, and prophesied till he came to Najoth in Ramatha.
Why then didst thou not hearken to the voice of Jehovah: but hast turned to the prey, and hast done evil in the sight of Jehovah.
It is for discipline that you endured: God parts with you as with children, for what son is there whom his father doesn't discipline?
And when the people saw him, they praised their god; for they said, Our god hath delivered into our hands our enemy, and the destroyer of our country, which slew many of us.
and he bringeth near the tribe of Benjamin by itself families, and the family of Matri is captured, and Saul son of Kish is captured, and they seek him, and he hath not been found.
If then there is any comfort in Christ, any help given by love, any uniting of hearts in the Spirit, any loving mercies and pity,
The name of his first-born son was Joel, and the name of his second son was Abijah. They were judges in Beer-sheba.
However, the people refused to listen to the voice of Samuel and they said, "No, but there must be a king over us,
And Jehovah sent thee on a way and said, Go and utterly destroy the sinners the Amalekites, and fight against them until they be consumed.
And the men of the garrison answered Jonathan and his armorbearer, and said, Come up to us, and we will show you a thing. And Jonathan said unto his armorbearer, Come up after me: for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
"Hear, you kings! Give ear, you princes! I, even I, will sing to Yahweh. I will sing praise to Yahweh, the God of Israel.
Wherefore he is able also to save them to the outermost that come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them.
Then sang Deborah and Barak, the son of Abinoam, on that day, saying,
Then he said to all Israel, "You will be on one side, and I and my son Jonathan will be on the other." And the army said to Saul, "Do what is good in your eyes."
And the people repented concerning Benjamin, for Jehovah had made a breach among the tribes of Israel.
And the other wife did everything possible to make her unhappy, because Jehovah had not let her have children;
The mountains trembled before Yahweh, this Sinai, at the presence of Yahweh, the God of Israel.
And the children of the Kenite, Moses' father-in-law, went up out of the city of palm-trees with the children of Judah into the wilderness of Judah, which lieth in the south of Arad; and they went and dwelt among the people.
But the thing displeased Samuel, when they said, "Give us a king to judge us." Samuel prayed to Yahweh.
There was a man of the hill-country of Ephraim, whose name was Micah.
And David answereth the priest, and saith to him, `Surely, if women have been restrained from us as have in my going out, then the vessels of the young men are holy, and it a common way: and also, surely to-day it is sanctified in the vessel.'
Then Jephthah fled from his brethren, and dwelt in the land of Tob: and there were gathered vain men to Jephthah, and went out with him.
there doth remain, then, a sabbatic rest to the people of God,
And Gideon went up by the way of them that dwell in tents on the east of Nobah and Jogbehah, and smote the camp; for the camp was at itself ease.
teaching about baptisms and laying on of hands, and resurrection of the dead and eternal judgment.
And if any man said unto him, Let them not fail to burn the fat presently, and then take as much as thy soul desireth; then he would answer him, Nay; but thou shalt give it me now: and if not, I will take it by force.
They crushed and oppressed Israel in that old; for eighteen years they crushed all Israel who were beyond the Jordan, in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
The name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam the daughter of Ahimaaz. The name of the captain of his army was Abner the son of Ner, Saul's uncle.
And when they sounded their trumpets in three places round about the camp, and had broken their pitchers, they held their lamps in their left hands, and with their right hands the trumpets which they blew, and they cried out: The sword of Jehovah and of Gedeon;
(for they could not endure that which was commanded, And if so much as a beast touch the mountain, it shall be stoned, or thrust through with a dart:
And David saith to him, `Whose thou? and whence thou?' And he saith, `An Egyptian youth I , servant to a man, an Amalekite, and my lord forsaketh me, for I have been sick three days,
And so terrible was the sight, that Moses said, I exceedingly fear and quake:)
And Saul also went home to Gibeah; and with him went the band, whose hearts God had touched.
And it came to pass at that time, when Eli was laid down in his place, and his eyes began to wax dim, that he could not see;
And he answered him: Why askest thou my name, which is wonderful?
The Ammonites crossed the the Jordan to fight also against Judah, Benjamin, and the house of Ephraim: and Israel was very distressed.
Now we had fathers' houses of our flesh to chasten us, and we paid them respect. Shall we not much rather be in subjection to the Father of spirits, and live?
that Jehovah called Samuel: and he answered, Here am I.
For God is my witness, how I long after all of you in the tender mercies of Christ Jesus.
And Samuel saith to the cook, `Give the portion which I gave to thee, of which I said unto thee, `Set it by thee?'
and having fallen away, again to renew to reformation, having crucified again to themselves the Son of God, and exposed to public shame.
And he saith, `My gods which I made ye have taken, and the priest, and ye go; and what to me more? and what this ye say unto me, What -- to thee!'
Before the lamp of God went out, Samuel slept in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was.
And Jonathan son of Saul riseth, and goeth unto David to the forest, and strengtheneth his hand in God,
And the gold mice according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines, for their five rulers, from the fortified city to the unwalled village of the open country as far as the great stone, where they set the ark of Yahweh until this day in the field of Joshua of Beth Shemesh.
Yahweh said to Samuel, "Listen to the voice of the people in all that they tell you; for they have not rejected you, but they have rejected me as the king over them.
Then David ran, stood over the Philistine, took his sword, drew it out of itself sheath, killed him, and cut off his head with it. When the Philistines saw that their champion was dead, they fled.
And it came to pass after a time, in the days of the wheat-harvest, that Samson visited his wife with a male of the goats. And he said, I will go in to my wife into the chamber. but her father would not suffer him to go in.
And David went on fighting them from evening till the evening of the day after: and not one of them got away but only four hundred young men who went in flight on camels.
Then Samuel said to the people, Come, let us go to Gilgal, and there make the kingdom strong in the hands of Saul.
And Saul, and Jonathan his son, and the people that were found with them, abode in Geba of Benjamin: and the Philistines encamped in Michmash.
I also will not henceforth dispossess from before them any of the nations that Joshua left when he died;
Jonathan, Saul's son, arose, and went to David into the woods, and strengthened his hand in God.
But Jehovah said to Samuel, Do not take note of his face or how tall he is, because I will not have him: for the Lord's view is not man's; man takes note of the outer ordinance concerning them; but Jehovah sees the heart.
David left the baggage he had with him in the care of the baggage keeper, ran to the battle line, and came and asked how his brothers were doing.
And the people had come into the wood, and behold, the honey flowed; but no man put his hand to his mouth, for the people feared oath.
Also, before they offered up the fat as a burnt-offering, the servant of priest would come and say to the man who was sacrificing, "Give the priest food for roasting, for he will not take boiled food from you, but only raw."
That I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being made conformable unto his death;
And Jehovah said to them: Did not the Egyptians and the Amorrhites, and the children of Ammon and the Philistines,
He said: Let me die with the Philistines. And when he had strongly shook the pillars, the house fell upon all the princes, and the rest of the multitude that was there: and he killed many more at his death, than he had killed before in his life.
And she had her seat under the palm-tree of Deborah between Ramah and Beth-el in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel came up to her to be judged.)
And when Abigail saw David, she hasted, and lighted off the ass, and fell before David on her face, and bowed herself to the ground;
And the princes of the Philistines came to her, and said: Deceive him, and learn of him wherein his great strength lieth, and how we may be able to overcome him, to bind and afflict him: which if thou shalt do, we will give thee each one of us eleven hundred pieces of silver.
And he made an attack on them from Aroer all the way to Minnith, over-running twenty towns, as far as Abel-cheramim, and put great numbers to the sword. So the children of Ammon were crushed before the children of Israel.
But thy kingdom shall not continue. Jehovah hath sought him a man according to his own heart; and him hath Jehovah commanded to be prince over his people, because thou hast not observe that which Jehovah commanded.
And they said, Arise, that we may go up against them; for we have seen the land, and, behold, it is very good; and are ye still? be not slothful to go, and to enter in to possess the land.
A new and living way which he hath dedicated for us through the veil, that is to say, his flesh,
Now Samuel did not yet know Yahweh, and the word of Yahweh had not yet been revealed to him.
And his companion answereth and saith, `This is nothing save the sword of Gideon son of Joash, a man of Israel; God hath given into his hand Midian and all the camp.'
Joash said to all who stood against him, "Will you contend for Baal? Or will you save him? He who will contend for him, let him be put to death by morning! If he is a god, let him contend for himself, because someone hast broken down his altar!"
but remaining in the flesh more necessary for your sakes;
And he will appoint of them to be his tribunes, and centurions, and to plough his fields, and to reap his grain, and to make him arms and chariots.
And when the day of battle was come, there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan, except Saul and Jonathan his son.
Zebulun is a people who scorned death, and Naphtali, on the heights of the field.
And Jonathan smote the garrison of the Philistines which was in Gabaa. And when the Philistines had heard of it, Saul sounded the trumpet over all the land, speaking: Let the Hebrews hear.
And Saul sendeth messengers to take David, and they see the assembly of the prophets prophesying, and Samuel standing, set over them, and the Spirit of God is on Saul's messengers, and they prophesy -- they also.
He broke down the tower of Penuel, and killed the men of the city.
And the five men, those going to traverse the land of Laish, answer and say unto their brethren, `Have ye known that there is in these houses an ephod, and teraphim, and graven image, and molten image? and now, know what ye do.'
So all Israel went down to the Philistines, to sharpen every man his ploughshare, and his spade, and his axe, and his rake.
And this I pray: that your love may abound still more and more in knowledge and all discernment,
And they rise and go to Ziph before Saul, and David and his men in the wilderness of Maon, in the Arabah, at the south of the desolate place.
And they passed on and went their way; and the sun went down upon them when they were by Gibeah, which belongeth to Benjamin.
and rise against me do the masters of Gibeah -- and they go round the house against me by night -- me they thought to slay, and my concubine they have humbled, and she dieth;
And Jonathan said to his young servant who had his arms, Come, let us go over to the armies of these men who have no circumcision: it may be that Jehovah will give us help, for there is no limit to his power; Jehovah is able to give salvation by a great army or by a small band.
And the Spirit of Jehovah was upon him, and he judged Israel; and he went out to war, and Jehovah gave Chushan-rishathaim king of Syria into his hand; and his hand prevailed against Chushan-rishathaim.
`And Israel sendeth messengers unto Sihon, king of the Amorite, king of Heshbon, and Israel saith to him, Let us pass over, we pray thee, through thy land, unto my place,
And Saul, balancing the spear in his hand, said, I will give David a blow, pinning him to the wall. And David bought away from him twice.
And Nob, the village of the priests, he put to the sword, all the men and women, children and babies at the breast, and oxen and asses and sheep.
Achish answered David, "I know that you are good in my sight, as an angel of God. Notwithstanding, the princes of the Philistines have said, 'He shall not go up with us to the battle.'
His return was to Ramah, for his house was there; and he judged Israel there; and he built an altar to Yahweh there.
All the lords of Shechem and Beth-Millo gathered, and they went and made Abimelech as king, near the oak of the pillar that is at Shechem.
So the servants of Saul informed him, saying, "This is what David said."
Now I desire to have you know, brothers, that the things which happened to me have turned out rather to the progress of the Good News;
And they gave up Jehovah, and became servants of Baal and the Astartes.
And Gideon saith unto them, `I do not rule over you, nor doth my son rule over you; Jehovah doth rule over you.'
Now Zebah and Zalmunna were in Karkor and their armies with them, about fifteen thousand men, those of all the army of the children of the east who were still living; for a hundred and twenty thousand of their swordsmen had been put to death.
And the evil spirit from Jehovah was upon Saul, as he sat in his house with his spear in his hand; and David played with his hand.
Gideon the son of Joash returned from the battle from the ascent of Heres.
Then Abimelech went to Thebez, and put his army in position against Thebez and took it.
Then I took my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent her throughout the country of the inheritance of Israel; for they have committed lewdness and folly in Israel.
and the ark of God hath been taken, and the two sons of Eli have died, Hophni and Phinehas.
Then Samuel said, "Is there as much delight for Yahweh in burnt-offerings and sacrifices as there is in your obedience Yahweh? Look! To obey is better than sacrifice; to give heed than the fat of rams.
and his concubine, who in Shechem, hath born to him -- even she -- a son, and he setteth up his name Abimelech.
The five chiefs of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites and the Sidonians and the Hivites living in Mount Lebanon, from the mountain Baal-hermon as far as Hamath:
For indeed he was sick, nigh unto death; but God had mercy on him; and not only on him, but on me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow.
Then Abigail got up quickly and went on her ass, with five of her young women, after the men whom David had sent, and she became David's wife.
And it was told Saul, saying, Behold, David is at Naioth in Ramah.
Then said he unto all Israel, Be ye on one side, and I and Jonathan my son will be on the other side. And the people said unto Saul, Do what seemeth good unto thee.
for whom Jehovah doth love He doth chasten, and He scourgeth every son whom He receiveth;'
So Saul sent messengers to Jesse and said, "Send me David your son who is with the sheep."
It is for your training that you undergo these things; God is acting to you as a father does to his sons; for what son does not have punishment from his father?
And the three hundred men nevertheless persisted sounding the trumpets. And Jehovah sent the sword into all the camp, and they killed one another,
By faith Jacob, when he was a dying, blessed both the sons of Joseph; and worshipped, Leaning upon the top of his staff.
Zebah and Zalmunna said, "Get up yourself, and strike us, for as is the man, so is his power." So Gideon got up and killed Zebah and Zalmunna, and he took the crescent ornaments that were on the necks of their camels.
And the sons of Israel add to do the evil thing in the eyes of Jehovah, and serve the Baalim, and Ashtaroth, and the gods of Aram, and the gods of Sidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the Bene-Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines, and forsake Jehovah, and have not served Him;
Then said Saul unto the people that were with him, Number now, and see who is gone from us. And when they had numbered, behold, Jonathan and his armorbearer were not there.
In those days there was no king in Israel, and in those days the tribe of the Danites sought for themselves an inheritance to dwell in; to that day [their lot] had not fallen to them for inheritance among the tribes of Israel.
So the Israelites dispersed from there at that time according to tribe and family; and they went out from there, each one to their own territory.
Why then didn't you obey Yahweh's voice, but took the plunder, and did that which was evil in Yahweh's sight?"
and they turn and go, and put the their babes, and the cattle, and the baggage, before them.
And after this they consulted Jehovah whether he would come thither. And Jehovah answered: Behold, he is hidden at home.
But he made himself as nothing, taking the form of a servant, being made like men;
And it came to pass, as she continued praying before Jehovah, that Eli marked her mouth.
And the people of Beth-el came and sat there until evening before God, and they lifted their voices and wept bitterly.
He brought the tribe of Benjamin near by their families: and the family of the Matrites was chosen. Then Saul the son of Kish was chosen; but when they looked for him, he could not be found.
I pray thee, forgive the transgression of thy handmaid; for Jehovah will certainly make my lord a everlasting house; because my lord fights the battles of Jehovah, and evil hast not been found in thee all thy days.
And the woman came and told her husband, saying, A man of God came to me, and his appearance was like the appearance of an angel of God, very terrible; but I did not ask him whence he was, neither did he tell me his name.
The angel of Jehovah appeared to him, and said: Jehovah is with thee, O Most valiant of men.
And Jehovah said to Samuel, See, I will do a thing in Israel at which the ears of everyone hearing of it will be burning.
And Caleb said: He that shall take Cariath-Sepher, and lay it waste, to him will I give my daughter Axa to wife.
After this, you will come to the Gibeah of God, where there are sentries of the Philistines. Righteous as you enter the village there, you will meet a procession of prophets coming down from the high place, with harp, tambourine, flute, and zither before them, and they will be prophesying.
Then Samson said to them, This time I will give payment in full to the Philistines, for I am going to do them great evil.
And as for the asses that thou didst lose three days ago, set not thy heart on them; for they are found. And on whom is all the desire of Israel ? Is it not on thee, and on all thy father's house?
David therefore sent out spies, and understood that Saul had certainly come.
But he turned back from the sculptured stones that were near Gilgal, and he said, "I have a secret message for you, O king." And he said, "Silence!" So all those standing in his presence went out,
And Saul cast a spear at him to smite him: whereby Jonathan knew that it was determined of his father to slay David.
And he went up thence to Penuel, and spake unto them likewise: and the men of Penuel answered him as the men of Succoth had answered him.
But to which of the angels hast he ever said, "Sit down at my right hand, until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet."
But all Israel went down to the Philistines, to sharpen every man his share, and his coulter, and his axe, and his mattock.
Lifting the poor out of the dust, and him who is in need out of the lowest place, to give them their place among rulers, and for their heritage the seat of glory: for the pillars of the earth are the Lord's and he hast made them the base of the world.
Wherefore lift up the hands that hang down, and the failing knees;
Is the wheat harvest not today? I will call out to Yahweh so that he still sends thunder and rain, so that you will know and will see that your wickedness is great that you have done in the eyes of Yahweh By asking for a king for yourselves."
And after some days returning to take her, he went aside to see the carcass of the lion, and, behold, there was a swarms of bees in the mouth of the lion and a honeycomb.
And the servants of Saul said to him: Behold, now an evil spirit from God troubleth thee.
Behold, I will put a fleece of wool in the floor; and if the dew be on the fleece only, and it be dry upon all the earth beside, then shall I know that thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said.
I thank my God upon every remembrance of you,
Have they not found, divided the prey, A damsel, two damsels, to each? A booty of dyed stuffs for Sisera, A booty of dyed stuffs of embroidery, Dyed stuff of double embroidery for the neck of a spoiler?
And the children of Israel returned from chasing after the Philistines, and they pillaged their camps.
And he said to them: Out of the eater came forth food, and out of the strong came forth sweetness. And they could not in three days expound the riddle.
Beware of the dogs, beware of the evil workers, beware of the false circumcision.
And Jephthah crossed over to the children of Ammon to make war against them; and Yahweh gave them into his hand.
This day Jehovah will give you up into my hands, and I will overcome you, and take your head off you; and I will give the bodies of the Philistine army to the birds of the heaven and the beasts of the earth today, so that all the earth may see that Israel hast a God;
And the people were true to Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the responsible men who were still living after the death of Joshua, and had seen all the great work of Jehovah which he had done for Israel.
And the man Micah had a house of gods, and made an ephod and teraphim, and consecrated one of his sons, who became his priest.
not forsaking our own assembling together, as the custom of some is, but exhorting one another; and so much the more, as you see the Day approaching.
And whereas indeed he was the Son of God, he learned obedience by the things which he suffered:
They got up early, and as dawn was breaking, Samuel called to Saul on the roof, saying, "Get up, so that I can send you away." So Saul got up and the two of them, he and Samuel, went outside.
and the princes of the Philistines come up unto her, and say to her, `Entice him, and see wherein his great power , and wherein we are able for him -- and we have bound him to afflict him, and we -- we give to thee, each one, eleven hundred silverlings.'
And an angel of Jehovah came and sat under the terebinth that was in Ophrah, that to Joash the Abi-ezrite. And his son Gideon threshed wheat in the winepress, to rid from the Midianites.
And that every tongue may give witness that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
And the men of Gibeah rose against me, and beset the house round about upon me by night, and thought to have slain me: and my concubine have they forced, that she is dead.
Now there was a certain man of Saraa, and of the race of Dan, whose name was Manue, and his wife was barren.
For Christ did not enter into a sanctuary made by hands, a mere copy of the true one, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God on our behalf,
And it came to pass on the fourth day, that they arose early in the morning, and he rose up to depart; and the damsel's father said to his son-in-law, Refresh thy heart with a morsel of bread, and afterwards ye may go your way.
And there went out a champion out of the camp of the Philistines, named Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span.
Salute every one in Christ Jesus. The brethren that are with me salute you.
Who needeth not daily, as those high priests, to offer up sacrifice, first for his own sins, and then for the people's: for this he did once, when he offered up himself.
So God subdued on that day Jabin king of Canaan before the children of Israel.
He went there to Naioth in Ramah. Then God's Spirit came on him also, and he went on, and prophesied, until he came to Naioth in Ramah.
Moreover the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan to fight also against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim. so that Israel was sore distressed.
Euodia I exhort and Syntyche I exhort, to be of the same mind in Jehovah;
And all the borders thereof from the the Arnon to the Jaboc, and from the wilderness to the the Jordan.
David pursued, he and four hundred men; but two hundred men stayed because they were too exhausted to pass over the Wadi Besor.
And they slew of Moab at that time about ten thousand men, all lusty, and all men of valor; and there escaped not a man.
He will take your male slaves and your female slaves and the best of your young men and your donkeys and will use them for his projects.
And David said to him, To whom belongest thou? and whence art thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant of an Amalekite; and my master left me, because three days ago I fell sick.
Then Saul and all the people that were with him, shouted together, and they came to the place of the fight: and, behold, every man's sword was turned upon his neighbor, and there was a very great slaughter.
So Samuel called out to Yahweh, and Yahweh brought thunder and rain that same day, so all the people feared Yahweh and Samuel greatly.
For I have declared to him that I will judge his house for ever, for the iniquity which he hath known: because his sons made themselves vile, and he restrained them not.
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they said unto Samson's wife, Entice thy husband, that he may declare unto us the riddle, lest we burn thee and thy father's house with fire: have ye called us to take that we have? is it not so?
according to my earnest expectation and hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but in all boldness, as always, now Christ shall be magnified in my body whether by life or by death.
But the princes of the Philistines were wroth with him; and the princes of the Philistines said to him, Make the man return, that he may go again to his place where thou hast appointed him, that he go not down with us to the battle, that in the battle he be not an adversary to us; for wherewith should this reconcile them himself to his master? should it not be with the heads of these men?
And Saul he disguiseth himself and putteth on other garments, and goeth, he and two of the men with him, and they come in unto the woman by night, and he saith, `Divine, I pray thee, to me by the familiar spirit, and cause to come up to me him whom I say unto thee.'
the Holy Spirit this evidencing that not yet hath been manifested the way of the holy , the first tent having yet a standing;
All Israel from Dan even to Beer-sheba knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of Yahweh.
For if that first covenant had been faultless, then no place would have been sought for a second.
But Samuel said, "What have you done?" Saul said, "Because I saw that the army was scattering from me and you did not come at the appointed time and that the Philistines had gathered at Micmash,
He said to them, "Follow me; for Yahweh hast delivered your enemies the Moabites into your hand." They followed him, and took the fords of the Jordan against the Moabites, and didn't know any man to pass over.
And began to go towards the way of the wilderness, the enemy pursuing them thither also. And they that fired the city came also out to meet them.
Then all the wicked and unrighteous men that had gone with David answering, said: Because they came not with us, we will not give them anything of the prey which we have recovered: but let every man take his wife and his children, and be contented with them, and go his way.
Now when he was come to the place of the Jawbone, and the Philistines shouting went to meet him, the spirit of Jehovah came strongly upon him: and as the flax is wont to be consumed at the approach of fire, so the bands with which he was bound were broken and loosed.
And when he saw her he was overcome with grief, and said, Ah! my daughter! I am crushed with sorrow, and it is you who are the chief cause of my trouble; for I have made an oath to Jehovah and I may not take it back.
And Eli, hearing the noise and the cries, said, What is the reason of this outcry? And the man came quickly and gave the news to Eli.
Then David thought to himself, "Now I will perish one day by the hand of Saul! There is nothing better for me but that I must certainly escape to the land of the Philistines. Then Saul will desist from searching for me further in all of the territories of Israel, and so I will escape from his hand."
and she saith, `O, my lord, thy soul liveth! my lord, I the woman who stood with thee in this , to pray unto Jehovah;
For when the people were numbered, not one man of the people of Jabesh-gilead was present.
and he leadeth them before the king of Moab, and they dwell with him all the days of David's being in the siege.
Of the teaching of baptisms, and of the laying on of hands, and of resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment.
Then David said to Abiathar the priest, the son of Ahimelech, "Please bring the ephod here for me." So Abiathar brought the ephod to David.
Who was faithful to him that appointed him, as also Moses was faithful in all his house.
Then Saul said to the servant who had the care of his arms, Take out your sword and put it through me, before these men without circumcision come and make sport of me. But his servant, full of fear, would not do so. Then Saul took out his sword, and falling on it, put an end to himself.
from time to time the daughters of Israel go to talk to the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite, four days in a year.
And Jehovah had mercy on Hannah and she gave birth to three sons and two daughters. And the young Samuel became older before Jehovah.
Now Saul heard that David and the men who were with him had been located. Saul was sitting at Gibeah under the tamarisk tree at Ramah. Now his spear was in his hand and all his servants were stationed around him.
And Kish was the father of Saul; and Ner the father of Abner was the son of Abiel.
But Gideon said to them, I will not be a ruler over you, and my son will not be a ruler over you: it is Jehovah who will be prince over you.
Ask thy young men, and they will tell thee. Therefore let the young men find favor in thine eyes; for we come in a good day; give, I pray thee, what thy hand may find to thy servants, and to thy son David.
So they turned and departed, and put the little ones, the livestock, and the goods before them.
May we are diligent, then, to enter into that rest, that no one in the same ensample to their unbelief may fall,
And Gideon taketh ten men of his servants, and doth as Jehovah hath spoken unto him, and it cometh to pass, because he hath been afraid of the house of his father, and the men of the city, to do by day, that he doth by night.
The three companies blew the trumpets, broke the pitchers, and held the torches in their left hands, and the trumpets in their right hands with which to blow; and they shouted, "The sword of Yahweh and of Gideon!"
And he will take your daughters to be confectionaries, and to be cooks, and to be bakers.
and the Spirit of Jehovah prospereth over him, and he rendeth it as the Rending of a kid, and there is nothing in his hand, and he hath not declared to his father and his mother that which he hath done.
and after the second veil a tent that is called `Holy of holies,'
Then answered all the wicked men and men fellow, of those that went with David, and said, Because they went not with us, we will not give them aught of the spoil that we have recovered, save to every man his wife and his children, that they may lead them away, and depart.
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up: behold, I have delivered the land into his hand.
Then David and his men, who were about six hundred, arose, and departing from Ceila, wandered up and down uncertain where they should stay: and it was told Saul that David was fled from Ceila, and had escaped: wherefore he forbore to go out.
And the Levite is desiring to dwell with the man, and the young man is to him as one of his sons.
And he said to her, If they should bind me fast with new ropes, with which no work hast been done, then should I be weak, and be as another man.
He sent spies, and learned that he was most certainly come thither.
It was necessary therefore that the copies of the things in the heavens should be cleansed with these: but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these.
So Yahweh left those nations; he did not drive them out at once, and he did not give them into the hand of Joshua.
For as long as the son of Isai liveth upon earth, thou shalt not be established nor thy kingdom. Therefore now presently send, and fetch him to me: for he is the son of death.
And Saul took him that day, and would let him go no more home to his father's house.
and Carmel and in the towns of the Jerahmeelites, and in the towns of the Kenites;
Now Ahiah, the son of Ahitub (the brother of Ichabod), the son of Phinehas, the son of Eli the priest of Yahweh at Shiloh, was carrying an ephod. The troops did not know that Jonathan had gone.
And now behold, I know that thou shalt certainly be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thy hand.
They were a wall unto us both by night and day, all the while we were with them keeping the sheep.
He went from year to year in a circuit to Beth-el, Gilgal, and Mizpah; and he judged Israel in all those places.
Arid being very thirsty, he cried to Jehovah, and said: Thou hast given this very great deliverance and victory into the hand of thy servant: and, behold, I die for thirst, and shall fall into the hands of the uncircumcised.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
Saul was  years old when he became king; and he reigned two years over Israel.
And the Hebrews went over the the Jordan into the land of Gad and Gilead. And Saul was yet in Gilgal, and all the people followed him trembling.
Wherefore leaving the word of the beginning of Christ, let us go on to things more perfect, not laying again the foundation of penance from dead works, and of faith towards God,
However we may not give them wives of our daughters, for the children of Israel had sworn, saying, 'Cursed is he who gives a wife to Benjamin.'"
They gathered together to Mizpah, and drew water, and poured it out before Yahweh, and fasted on that day, and said there, "We have sinned against Yahweh." Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizpah.
And the man said to Eli, "I am one who hast come from the battle line! I have fled to-day from the battle line!" And he said, "What exactly happened, my son?"
And Gideon, the son of Joash, came to his end when he was very old, and his body was put in the resting-place of Joash his father, in Ophrah of the Abiezrites.
My heart goes out to the commanders of Israel, those offering themselves willingly among the people; bless Yahweh!
Bronze greaves were on its legs, and a bronze spear was slung between his shoulders.
For every house hast a builder; but the builder of all things is God.
And [there is] a man in Maon, and his work in Carmel; and the man very great, and he hath three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats; and he is shearing his flock in Carmel.
And David said to Abiathar, I knew it that day, when Doeg the Edomite was there, that he would certainly tell Saul: I am accountable for all the lives of thy father's house.
Yahweh called Samuel: and he said, "Here I am."
that he declareth to her all his heart, and saith to her, `A razor hath not gone up on my head, for a Nazirite to God I from the womb of my mother; if I have been shaven, then hath my power turned aside from me, and I have been weak, and have been as any of the human race.'
And Saul said: They have brought them from Amalec: for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the herds that they might be sacrificed to Jehovah thy God, but the rest we have slain.
Then David sent out ten young men; and David said to the young men, Go up to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and salute him in my name.
And the liers-in-wait hasted, and rushed upon Gibeah; and the liers-in-wait drew themselves along, and smote all the city with the edge of the sword.
But Sisera went in flight on foot to the tent of Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite; for there was peace between Jabin, king of Hazor, and the family of Heber the Kenite.
nor yet through the blood of goats and calves, but through his own blood, entered in once for all into the Holy Place, having obtained eternal redemption.
Not that I speak in respect to lack, for I have learned in whatever state I am, to be content in it.
For you both sympathized with the prisoners and put up with the seizure of your belongings with joy because you knew that you yourselves had a better and permanent possession.
And Saul said to David: Thou art not able to withstand this Philistine, nor to fight against him: for thou art but a boy, but he is a warrior from his youth.
And everyone who was in trouble, and everyone who was in debt, and everyone who was bitter in soul, came together to him, and he became captain over them: about four hundred men were joined to him.
For by one offering he hast perfected for all time those who are made holy.
And afterwards the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites, that dwelt in the hill-country, and in the South, and in the lowland.
Then Yahweh's Spirit will come mightily on you, and you will prophesy with them, and will be turned into another man.
At her feet he bowed down, he fell, he lay down: at her feet he bowed down, he fell: where he bowed down, there he fell down dead.
saying, This blood is the sign of the agreement which God hast made with you.
And Saul saw the army of the Plilistines, and was afraid, and his heart was very much dismayed.
always in my every prayer for all of you, making the prayer with joy,
(only for the sake of the generations of the sons of Israel's knowing to teach them war, only those who formerly have not known them) --
And the sons of Israel say unto Samuel, `Keep not silent for us from crying unto Jehovah our God, and He doth save us out of the hand of the Philistines.'
And the guards saw a man come forth out of the city, and said unto him, Show us, we pray thee, how may enter into the city, and we will show thee kindness.
Samuel told all Yahweh's words to the people who asked him for a king.
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel to Mizpeh, and I will pray for you unto Jehovah.
But Hannah did not go up, for she said to her husband, [I will wait] until the child is weaned; then will I bring him, that he may appear before Jehovah, and there abide for ever.
And the children of Israel were moved with pity for Benjamin their brother, saying, To-day one tribe hast been cut off from Israel.
And Saul said: Disperse yourselves among the people, and tell them to bring me every man his ox and his ram, and slay them upon this stone, and eat, and you shall not sin against Jehovah in eating with the blood. So all the people brought every man his ox with him till the night: and slew them there.
Then David inquired of Jehovah yet again. And Jehovah answered him and said, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will deliver the Philistines into thy hand.
Then Samuel told the people the manner of the kingdom, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
His Son is the radiance of his glory, the very image of his substance, And upholding all things by the word of his power, when he had by himself purified us of our sins, sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high;
Now she had men waiting secretly in the inner place; and she said to him, The Philistines are on you, Samson. And the cords were broken by him as a twist of thread is broken when touched by a flame. So the secret of his strength did not come to light.
I winepress on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus.
All the men of Israel who had hidden themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim heard that the Philistines had fled, so even they pursued them closely in the battle.
Righteous as he finished offering the burnt-offering, Samuel was coming. So Saul went out to meet him and to bless him.
For some, when they had heard, did provoke: howbeit not all that came out of Egypt by Moses.
Jephthah judged Israel six years. Then Jephthah the Gileadite died, and was buried in the cities of Gilead.
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel, who did not come up to Jehovah at the meeting of all Israel? For they had taken a great oath that whoever did not come up to Mizpah to Jehovah was to be put to death.
Not that I speak from need, for I have learned to be content in whatever circumstances I am.
Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came to Samuel to Ramah,
And Jonathan said, Far be it from thee; for, if I knew with certainty that evil were determined by my father to come upon thee, would I not tell it thee?
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered their hosts together for warfare, to fight with Israel. And Achish said unto David, Know thou assuredly, that thou shalt go out with me to battle, thou and thy men.
And, behold, I will send a lad, saying, Go, find out the arrows; If I expressly say unto the lad, Behold, the arrows are on this side of thee, take them; then come thou: for there is peace to thee, and no hurt; as Jehovah liveth.
And when the people of Jabesh-gilead had news of what the Philistines had done to Saul,
being able to deal gently with those who are ignorant and led astray, since he himself also is surrounded by weakness,
And when they were risen in the morning, and it began now to be light, Samuel called Saul on the top of the house, speaking: Arise, that I may let thee go. And Saul arose: and they went out both of them, to wit, he and Samuel.
Dost thou not possess what Chemosh thy god puts thee in possession yourselves? and whatever Jehovah our God hast dispossessed before us, that will we get.
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of a heavenly calling, consider the apostle and chief priest of our profession, Christ Jesus,
And they said to him, "Please inquire of God that we may know whether our journey that we are going on will be successful."
of the holy places a servant, and of the true tabernacle, which Jehovah did set up, and not man,
For Zebul the ruler of the city, hearing the words of Gaal, the son of Obed, was very angry,
And they will salute thee, and give thee two loaves of bread; which thou shalt receive of their hands.
For every commandment having been spoken according to law by Moses to all the people; having taken the blood of calves and goats, with water and scarlet wool and hyssop, he sprinkled both the book itself and all the people,
While she continued to pray before Yahweh, Eli was observing her mouth.
For we don't have here an enduring city, but we seek that which is to come.
Then David came to Siceleg, and sent presents of the prey to the elders of Judah his neighbors, speaking: Receive a blessing of prey of the enemies of Jehovah.
But Aod, while they were in confusion, escaped, and passed by the place of the idols, from whence he had returned. And he came to Seirath:
For, having done what was right in God's eyes, you have need of waiting before his word hast effect for you.
And Jair died: and was buried in the place which was called Camon.
And the man saith unto Eli, `I he who hath come out of the ranks, and I out of the ranks have fled to-day;' and he saith, `What hath been the matter, my son?'
Let *us* also therefore, having so great a cloud of witnesses surrounding us, laying aside every weight, and sin which so easily entangles us, run with endurance the race that lies before us,
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, attacking them till the morning, till there is not a man of them living. And they said, Do whatever seems right to you. then the priest said, Let us come near to God.
And he went from year to year in vault to Beth-el, and Gilgal, and Mizpah, and judged Israel in all those places.
Since, would they not indeed have ceased being oblation, on account of the worshippers once purged having no longer any conscience of sins?
And the wrath of Jehovah was burning against Israel, and he said, Because this nation hast not been true to my agreement which I made with their fathers, and hast not given ear to my voice;
Ehud put out his left hand, and took the sword from his right thigh, and thrust it into his body:
Yea, Jehovah giveth also Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines, and tomorrow thou and thy sons with me; also the camp of Israel doth Jehovah give into the hand of the Philistines.'
Now at that time, when Abiathar the son of Achimelech fled to David to Ceila, he came down having an ephod with him.
Here I am; give witness against me before Jehovah and before the man on whom he hast put the holy oil: whose ox or ass have I taken? to whom have I been untrue? who hast been crushed down by me? from whose hand have I taken a price for the blinding of my eyes? I will give it all back to you.
Manasseh did not drive out the inhabitants of Beth Shean and itself towns, nor Taanach and itself towns, nor the inhabitants of Dor and itself towns, nor the inhabitants of Ibleam and itself towns, nor the inhabitants of Megiddo and itself towns; but the Canaanites would dwell in that land.
By the new and living way which he made open for us through the veil, that is to say, his flesh;
But he refused, and said, "I will not eat." But his servants, together with the woman, constrained him; and he listened to their voice. So he arose from the earth and sat on the bed.
When they told it to Jotham, he went and stood on the top of Mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said to them, "Listen to me, you men of Shechem, that God may listen to you.
And David slew them from the evening unto the evening of the next day, and there escaped not a man of them, but four hundred young men, who had gotten upon camels, and fled.
Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of disobedience, in departing from the living God.
And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said to him, Blessed art thou of Jehovah: I have fulfilled the word of Jehovah.
But the fig-tree said to them, 'Should I stop producing my sweetness, and my good crop, to go sway over the trees?'
Then they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines fight against Keilah, and they rob the threshingfloors.
And every priest takes his place at the altar day by day, doing what is necessary, and making again and again the same offerings which are never able to take away sins.
And it came to pass that, after they had carried it about, the hand of Jehovah was against the city with very great panic; and he smote the men of the city, both small and great, and hemorrhoids broke out upon them.
There was severe war against the Philistines all the days of Saul; and Saul saw any mighty man, or any valiant man, he took him into his service.
And she wept before him the seven days, while they had the feast. And it came to pass on the seventh day, that he explained it to her, for she pressed him. And she explained the riddle to the children of her people.
To whom also Abraham gave a tenth part of all; first being by interpretation King of righteousness, and after that also King of Salem, which is, King of peace;
Now there were between the ascents, by which Jonathan sought to go over to the garrison of the Philistines, rocks standing up on both sides, and steep frightful like teeth on the one side, and on the other, the name of the one was Boses, and the name of the other was Sene:
And Samson saith unto the young man who is keeping hold on his hand, `Let me alone, and let me feel the pillars on which the house is established, and I lean upon them.'
holding up the word of life; that I may have something to boast in the day of Christ, that I didn't run in vain nor labor in vain.
But Gideon said to them, "I will not rule over you, and my son will not rule over you; Yahweh will rule over you."
Then Saul clothed David with his own fighting attire and put a helmet of bronze on his head and clothed him with body armor.
And it is yet more abundantly evident, since a different priest arises according to the likeness of Melchisedec,
And Deborah a prophetess, the wife of Lapidoth, judged Israel at that time.
And put their army in position against them; and they took all the produce of the earth as far as Gaza, till there was no food in Israel, or any sheep or oxen or asses.
So David went, he and the six hundred men who were with him, and they came to the Wadi Besor, but the rest remained.
But Sihon would not give way and let Israel go through his land; and Sihon gathered together all his people, and put his army in position in Jahaz; and made war on Israel.
How much worse punishment do you think he will be judged worthy of who hast trodden under foot the Son of God, and hast counted the blood of the covenant with which he was sanctified an the unholy thing, and hast insulted the Spirit of grace?
Here people who die receive tithes, but there one receives tithes of whom it is testified that he lives.
And Yahweh was with Judah, and he took possession of the hill country, but they could not drive out the inhabitants of the plain because they had chariots of iron.
And he will take your bondmen, and your bondwomen, and your comeliest young men, and your asses, and use them for his work.
Keep your places now, while I take up the argument with you before Jehovah, and give you the commentary of the righteousness of Jehovah, which he hast made clear by his acts to you and to your fathers.
He struck Nob, the city of the priests, with the edge of the sword, both men and women, children and nursing babies, and cattle and donkeys and sheep, with the edge of the sword.
And ye shall make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land; ye shall throw down their altars: but ye have not obeyed my voice: why have ye done this?
God for us something better having provided, that apart from us they might not be made perfect?
And Saul saith unto his uncle, `He certainly declared to us that the asses were found;' and of the matter of the kingdom he hath not declared to him that which Samuel said.
And Jonathan climbed up upon his hands and upon his feet, and his armour-bearer after him; and they fell before Jonathan; and his armour-bearer slew after him.
I give praise to my God at every memory of you,
And Ehud put out his left hand, and took the sword from his right side, and sent it into his stomach;
By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king; for he endured, as seeing him who is invisible.
So David prevailed over the Philistine with the sling and with the stone, and he smote down the Philistine and killed him, but there was no sword in David's hand.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto the woman, and said unto her, Behold now, thou art barren, and bearest not; but thou shalt conceive, and bear a son.
And the uncle of Saul saith, `Declare, I pray thee, to me, what Samuel said to you?'
But now he hast bought a more excellent ministry, by so much as he is mediator of a better covenant, which is established on the footing of better promises.
And Samuel told him all the words, and kept nothing back from him. And he said, It is Jehovah: let him do what is good in his sight.
In those days the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
And the man went into the land of the Hittites, and built a city, and called itself name Luz, which is itself name to this day.
And after him Ibzan of Beth-Lehem judgeth Israel,
Then Saul said to David, May a blessing be on you, David, my son; you will do great things and without doubt you will overcome. Then David went on his way, and Saul went back to his place.
She put her hand to the tent-pin, And her right hand to the workmen's hammer; And she smote Sisera, she struck through his head, Shattered and pierced through his temples.
And the Ziphites went up to Saul in Gabaa, speaking: Lo, doth not David lie hid with us in the strongholds of the wood, in mount Hachila, which is on the right hand of the desert.
harden not your hearts, as in the provocation, in the day of Massah in the wilderness;
Then Manoah took the male and the oblation and offered it up to even Jehovah, upon the rock. And he did wondrously, and Manoah and his wife looked on.
And Jephthah saith unto the elders of Gilead, `If ye are taking me back to fight against the Bene-Ammon, and Jehovah hath given them before me -- I, am I to you for a head?'
And no one takes the honor to himself but called by God, even as Aaron also.
And Saul saith unto David, `Blessed thou, my son David, also working thou dost work, and also prevailing thou dost prevail.' And David goeth on his way, and Saul hath turned back to his place.
The Levites took down Yahweh's ark, and the coffer that was with it, in which jewels of gold were, and put them on the great stone; and the men of Beth Shemesh offered burnt-offerings and sacrificed sacrifices the same day to Yahweh.
But we are not the children of withdrawing unto perdition, but of faith to the saving of the soul.
The same night Jehovah said to him: Arise, and go down into the camp: because I have delivered them into thy hand.
and the roll hath begun to go up from the city -- a pillar of smoke -- and Benjamin turneth behind, and lo, gone up hath the perfection of the city toward the heavens.
After a while he returned to take her; and he turned aside to see the carcass of the lion; and behold, there was a swarms of bees in the body of the lion, and honey.
And the ark of Jehovah is in the field of the Philistines seven months,
Then Saul fell immediately his full length on the earth, and was terrified, because of Samuel's words. There was no strength in him; for he had eaten no bread all the day or all the night.
So now then, look, I know that you will certainly be king and the kingdom of Israel will be established in your hand.
And Moses indeed was faithful in all his house as a servant, for a testimony of those things which were to be said:
And Jehovah doth for Himself as He hath spoken by my hand, and even Jehovah, rendeth the kingdom out of thy hand, and giveth it to thy neighbor -- to David.
But Saul had given Michal his daughter, David's wife, to Phalti the son of Laish, who was of Gallim.
And the words which David spoke were heard, and were rehearsed before Saul.
And do not cut off your loyal love from my family forever, not even when Yahweh exterminates each of the enemies of David from the face of the earth."
Then at the dawn of day the woman came, and, falling down at the door of the man's house where her master was, was stretched there till it was light.
Not because I desire a bribe; but I desire fruit that may abound to your account.
And both of them uncovered themselves unto the garrison of the Philistines; and the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews come forth out of the clefts where they had hid themselves.
And he answered: You have taken away my gods which I have made me and the priest, and all that I have, and do you say: What aileth thee?
Then Micah said, Now I am certain that Jehovah will do me good, seeing that the Levite hast become my priest.
Then answered one of the people, and said, Thy father strictly charged the people with an oath, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth any food this day. And the people were faint.
And Jehovah said to Gideon, The people that are with thee are too many for me to give Midian into their hand, lest Israel vaunt themselves against me, saying, Mine own hand hath saved me.
even to choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to Me for a priest, to go up on Mine altar, to make incense, to bear an ephod before Me, and I give to the house of thy father all the fire-offerings of the sons of Israel?
And Saul eyed David from that day and forward.
And he returned to Ramatha, for there was his house, and there he judged Israel: he built also there an altar to Jehovah.
But my loved ones, though we say this, we are certain that you have better things in you, things which go with salvation;
"Now therefore stand still and see this great thing, which Yahweh will do before your eyes.
And it cometh to pass, when he seeth her, that he rendeth his garments, and saith, `Alas, my daughter, thou hast caused me greatly to bend, and thou hast been among those troubling me; and I -- I have opened my mouth unto Jehovah, and I am not able to turn back.'
These men were very good to us, and gave us no trouble: neither did we ever lose anything all the time that we conversed with them in the desert.
And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and rehearsed them in the ears of Jehovah.
Then Ehud went forth through the porch, and shut the doors of the parlour upon him, and locked them.
And an angel of the Lord came, and sat under the oak that was in Ephra, and belonged to Joas the father of the family of Ezri. And when Gedeon his son was threshing and cleansing wheat by the winepress, to flee from Midian,
But the princes of the Philistines were angry with him; and the princes of the Philistines said to him, "Make the man return, that he may go back to his place where you have appointed him, and let him not go down with us to battle, lest in the battle he become an adversary to us. For with what should this fellow reconcile them himself to his lord? Should it not be with the heads of these men?
They arose, and went to Ziph before Saul: but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the the Arabah on the south of the desert.
and to God our Father the glory -- to the generations of the ages. Amen.
And it came to pass when the time was come about after Hannah had conceived, that she bore a son, and called his name Samuel, [saying,] Because I have asked him of Jehovah.
That at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow, things in heaven, and things in earth, and things under the earth;
and to Jesus, mediator of a new covenant; and to blood of sprinkling, speaking better than Abel.
And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnathheres, in the mount of Ephraim, on the north side of the hill Gaash.
But call to remembrance the former days, in who, after ye were illuminated, ye endured a great fight of afflictions;
And indeed they that are of the sons of Levi, who receive the priesthood, have a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law, that is to say, of their brethren: though they themselves also came out of the loins of Abraham.
And standing he cried out to the bands of Israel, and said to them: Why are you come out prepared to fight? am not I a Philistine, and you the servants of Saul? Choose out a man of you, and let him come down and fight hand to hand.
Wherefore, also Jesus -- that he might sanctify through own blood the people -- without the gate did suffer;
And Saul sent messengers to take David, and she said, He is sick.
And the elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, Therefore we have returned to thee now, that thou mayest go with us, and fight against the children of Ammon, and be head over all of us the inhabitants of Gilead.
For God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labor of love which ye have showed toward his name, in that ye have ministered to the saints, and do attendant.
And Samson saith to them, `Let me, I pray you, put forth to you a riddle; if ye certainly declare it to me the seven days of the banquet, and have found out, then I have given to you thirty linen shirts, and thirty changes of garments;
And it was so, that, when he had turned his back to go from Samuel, God gave him another heart: and all those signs came to pass that day.
And Saul built an altar unto Jehovah; the same was the first altar that he built unto Jehovah.
And they went out into the fields, and gathered their vineyards, and trod [the grapes], and made rejoicings, and went into the house of their god, and ate and drank, and cursed Abimelech.
He was judge over Israel for twenty-three years; and at his death his body was put to rest in the earth in Shamir.
And to march from the west side of the city. And other ten thousand men chosen out of all Israel attacked the inhabitants of the city. And the battle grew hot against the children of Benjamin: and they understood not that present death threatened them on every side.
And every priest stands daily ministering, and offering often the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins.
And the garrison of the Philistines went out to the passage of Michmash.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I remember that which Amalek did to Israel, how he laid wait for him in the way, when he came up from Egypt.
They answered them, and said, "He is. Behold, he is before you. Hurry now, for he hast come to-day into the city; for the people have a sacrifice to-day in the high place.
And David came to Ziklag, and he sent of the spoil to the elders of Judah, to his friends, saying, Behold, a present for you of the spoil of the enemies of Jehovah:
In that day I will perform against Eli all things which I have spoken concerning his house: when I begin, I will also make an end.
Is not this David, of whom they answer in choruses, saying, Saul hath smitten among his thousands, and David among his myriads?'
So death overtook Saul and his three sons and his servant on the same day.
By faith he left Egypt, not fearing the anger of the king, for he persevered as if he saw the invisible one.
When Saul and all Israel heard these words of the Philistine, they were dismayed and very afraid.
When Samuel saw Saul, Yahweh answered him, "Here is the man about whom I told you! This is the one who will govern my people."
And when the king sat down upon his chair (according to custom) which was besides the wall, Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul's side, and David's place appeared empty.
And Samuel said to the people, [It is] even Jehovah, who appointed Moses and Aaron, and who brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
And the servants of Saul gave him a account of what David had said.
But if not, let fire come out from Abimelech, and devour the men of Shechem, and the house of Millo; and let fire come out from the men of Shechem, and from the house of Millo, on the way and devour Abimelech.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, seeing I have rejected him from reigning over Israel? fill thy horn with oil, and go, I will send thee to Jesse the Bethlehemite: for I have provided me a king among his sons.
Harden not your hearts, as in the provocation; in the day of Massah in the desert,
But I am pressed by both, having the desire for departure and being with Christ, [it is] very much better,
And Samuel speaketh unto all the house of Israel, saying, `If with all your heart ye are turning back unto Jehovah -- turn aside the gods of the sojourner from your midst, and Ashtaroth; and prepare your heart unto Jehovah, and serve Him only, and He doth deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.'
In that day I will do to Eli everything which I have said about his family, from first to last.
Therefore strengthen your slackened hands and your weakened knees,
And it cometh to pass in her coming in, that she persuadeth him to ask from her father the field, and she lighteth from off the ass, and Caleb saith to her, `What -- to thee?'
But six hundred men turned and fled to the wilderness unto the rock Rimmon, and abode in the rock Rimmon four months.
Then Delilah said to Samson, Tell me, I pray thee, in what is thy great strength, and with what thou mightest be bound to overpower thee.
And Abimelech chased him, and he fled before him, and many were overthrown and wounded, even unto the entrance of the gate.
He said to his mother, "The eleven hundred pieces of silver that were taken from you, about which you uttered a curse, and also spoke it in my ears, behold, the silver is with me. I took it." His mother said, "May Yahweh bless my son!"
And Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger, and ate no food the second day of the new moon; for he was grieved for David, because his father had done him shame.
Then Jonathan said, "Behold, we will pass over to the men, and we will reveal ourselves to them.
But if you have not that punishment of which we all have our part, then you are not true sons, but children of shame.
Now Jehovah had told Samuel in his ear a day before Saul came, saying,
And the children of Israel inquired of Jehovah, (for the ark of the covenant of God was there in those days,
And David letteth down the goods from off him on the hand of a keeper of the goods, and runneth into the the battle array, and cometh and asketh of his brethren of welfare.
And the heads of all the people, of all the tribes of Israel, presented themselves in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen that drew sword.
The children of Benjamin did not drive out the Jebusites who inhabited Jerusalem, but the Jebusites dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
The hand of the children of Israel prevailed more and more against Jabin the king of Canaan, until they had destroyed Jabin king of Canaan.
But in those sacrifices there is a remembrance again made of sins every year.
Now David had said, surely, in vain have I kept all that this had in the wilderness, so that nothing was missed of all that was his; and he hast requited me evil for good.
So the cook took up the shank and what was on it and put it before Saul, and he said, "Look, the saved portion is placed before youeat, because it hast been kept for you for the appointed time," and he said, "I have invited the people." So Saul ate with Samuel that day.
The people answered him in this way, saying, "So shall it be done to the man who kills him."
And the young Samuel, becoming older, had the approval of Jehovah and of men.
And the townsmen of Gibeah came together against me, going round the house on all sides by night; it was their purpose to put me to death, and my servant-wife was violently used by them and is dead.
And verily they that are of the sons of Levi, who receive the office of the priesthood, have a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law, that is, of their brethren, though they come out of the loins of Abraham:
But Christ, being come a high priest of the good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tent not made with hand, that is, not of this creation:
When the Ashdodites got up early the next morning, there was Dagon fallen with his face to the ground before the ark of Yahweh! So they took Dagon and returned him to his place.
They put Yahweh's ark on the cart, and the coffer with the golden mice and the images of their tumors.
And David saith to Abiathar, `I know on that day when Doeg the Edomite there, that he doth certainly declare to Saul; I have brought round to every person of the house of thy father;
So his servants told David these words, and the matter pleased David to become the son-in-law of the king as the specified time had not expired.
On the fourth day, they rose early in the morning, and he prepared to go, but the father of the young woman said to his son-in-law, "Refresh yourself with a bit of food, and afterward you may go."
Circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews; as touching the law, a Pharisee;
But a young man of the servants told Abigail, Nabal's wife, saying, "Look, David sent messengers from the wilderness to salute our master, but he addressed them angrily,
And Saul took him that day, and would not let him return to his father's house.
and I deliver you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all your oppressors, and I cast them out from your presence, and I give to you their land,
And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, moving away from the town; and as before, at their first attack, they put to death about thirty men of Israel on the highways, of which one goes up to Beth-el and the other to Gibeah, and in the open country.
And the people refused to hearken to the voice of Samuel: and they said, No, but there shall be a king over us,
And the masters of Shechem set for him ambushes on the top of the hills, and rob every one who passeth over by them in the way, and it is declared to Abimelech.
By faith he sojourned as a sojourner in the land of promise as a foreign country, having dwelt in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with of the same promise),
for *our* commonwealth hast itself existence in heavens, from which also we await the Lord Jesus Christ Saviour,
And the Philistine said to David, Come here to me, and I will give your flesh to the birds of the heaven and the beasts of the field.
The house of Joseph sent to spy out Beth-el. (The name of the city before that was Luz.)
And Jehovah said to Samuel, Give ear to their voice and make a king for them. And Samuel said to the men of Israel, Let every man go back to his town.
He said to David, "You are more righteous than I; for you have done good to me, whereas I have done evil to you.
for he waited for the city which hast foundations, of which God is artificer and constructor.
And they said one to another, Who hath done this thing? And when they inquired and asked, they said, Gideon the son of Joash hath done this thing.
But the man wouldn't stay that night, but he rose up and departed, and toward Jebus (also called Jerusalem). With him were a couple of saddled donkeys. His concubine also was with him.
They chose new gods; then was war in the gates: was there a shield or spear seen among forty thousand in Israel?
Then went Samson down, and his father and his mother, to Timnah, and came to the vineyards of Timnath: and, behold, a young lion groaned against him.
Then Samuel gave the people the laws of the kingdom, writing them in a book which he put in a safe place before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
and straight paths make for your feet, that that which is lame may not be turned aside, but rather be healed;
And Jehovah will not forsake his people for his great name's sake: because Jehovah hath sworn to make you his people.
And Jonathan caused David to swear again, by the love he had for him, for he loved him as he loved his own soul.
Your lifestyle must be free from the love of money, being content with what you have. For he himself hast said, "I will never desert you, and I will never abandon you."
And the men of Israel say unto Gideon, `Rule over us, both thou, and thy son, and thy son's son, for thou hast saved us from the hand of Midian.'
And Jonathan saith unto the young man bearing his weapons, `Come, and we pass over unto the station of these uncircumcised; it may be Jehovah doth work for us, for there is no restraint to even Jehovah, to save by many or by few.'
Now the children of Israel went up, weeping before Jehovah till evening, requesting Jehovah and saying, Am I to go forward again to the fight against the children of Benjamin my brother? And Jehovah said, Go up against him.
The Holy Spirit was making this light; that the way into the holy place was not yet revealed, while the first tent was still in existence,
and again, when he brings in the first-born into the habitable world, he says, And let all God's angels worship him.
Awake, awake, Deborah! awake, awake, utter a song! Arise, Barak, and take captive thy captives, thou son of Abinoam!
And she saith unto him, `My father -- thou hast opened thy mouth unto Jehovah, do to me as it hath gone out from thy mouth, after that Jehovah hath done for thee vengeance on thine enemies, on the Bene-Ammon.'
And take the ark of Jehovah, and lay it upon the cart; and put the jewels of gold, which ye return him for a trespass-offering, in a coffer by the side thereof; and send it away, that it may go.
But ourselves is in heaven; from whence also we look for the Saviour, our Lord Jesus Christ,
Then he called hastily to the young man his armor bearer, and said to him, "Draw your sword, and kill me, that men not say of me, 'A woman killed him.' His young man thrust him through, and he died."
Abimelech therefore arose with all his army by night, and laid ambushes near Sichem in four places.
Then David, questioning Jehovah, said, Am I to go after this band? will I be able to overtake them? And in answer he said, Go after them, for you will certainly overtake them, and get back everything.
And there was a great war against the Philistines all the days of Saul. For whomsoever Saul saw to be a mighty man, and fit for war, he took him to himself.
And he sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon, to say in his name, What hast thou to do with me, that thou art come against me, to waste my land?
(Now Samuel had died, and all Israel had mourned for him, and they had buried him in Ramah, his own city. And Saul had drove the mediums and the soothsayers from the land.)
For your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now;
He said, "I come in peace. I have come to sacrifice to Yahweh. Sanctify yourselves and come with me to the sacrifice." So he sanctified Jesse and his sons and invited them to the sacrifice.
And the men that were with David, said to him: Behold, we are in fear here in Judah, how much more if we go to Ceila against the hands of the Philistines?
They smote the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon. The people were very faint;
And Samuel took a sucking lamb, and offered it whole for a holocaust to Jehovah: and Samuel cried to Jehovah for Israel, and Jehovah heard him.
And Saul said to even Jehovah, the God of Israel, Give a perfect ! And Jonathan and Saul were taken, and the people escaped.
But if thou fear to go down, go thou with Phurah thy servant down to the host:
So now, my lord, by the living God and by your living soul, seeing that Jehovah hast kept you from the matter of blood and from taking into your hands the punishment for your wrongs, may all your haters, and those who would do evil to my lord, be like Nabal.
And the children of Israel remembered not Jehovah their God, who had delivered them out of the hands of all their enemies on every side:
and Gaal son of Ebed goeth out, and standeth at the opening of the gate of the city, and Abimelech riseth -- also the people who with him -- from the ambush,
Now the boy Samuel was serving Yahweh in the presence of Eli. The word of Yahweh was rare in those days; visions were not widespread.
The utility cart came to the field of Joshua of Beth Shemesh and stopped there where there was a large stone. They split the wood of the utility cart and sacrificed the cows as a burnt-offering to Yahweh.
"I regret that I made Saul king, for he hast turned back from following me and hast not kept my word." Samuel became angry, and he cried out to Yahweh all night.
The man Micah had a house of gods, and he made an ephod, and teraphim, and consecrated one of his sons, who became his priest.
And my prayer is that you may be increased more and more in knowledge and approvedness;
Therefore I have given him to Yahweh. As long as he lives he is given to Yahweh." He worshiped Yahweh there.
And when he was brought to him, he said to him: Let not any man's heart be dismayed in him: I thy servant will go, and will fight against the Philistine.
even he to whom it was said, "your offspring will be accounted as from Isaac";
And the people said to Saul, Shall Jonathan die, who hast wrought this great salvation in Israel? Far be it! Jehovah liveth, there shall not a hair of his head fall to the ground; for he hast wrought with God this day. So the people delivered Jonathan, that he died not.
And Saul sent his men to see David, saying, Do not come back without him, take him in his bed, so that I may put him to death.
And David arose and went away, both he and the six hundred men that were with him, to Achis the son of Maoch, king of Geth.
But the descendants of Benjamin did not drive out the Jebusites who lived in Jerusalem, so the Jebusites have lived among the descendants of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
But Yahweh's angel didn't appear to Manoah or to his wife any more. Then Manoah knew that he was Yahweh's angel.
And Samuel said, What then is this sound of the shoutings of sheep and the noise of oxen which comes to my ears?
And in that he saith, Yet once more, he signifieth the translation of the moveable things as made, that those things may remain which are immoveable.
While they were enjoying themselves, behold, the men of the city, the perverse lot, surrounded the house, pounding on the door. And they said to the old man, the owner of the house, "Bring out the man who came to your house so that we may have sex with him."
Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others.
He sent therefore and brought him Now he was ruddy and beautiful to behold, and of comely face. And Jehovah said: Arise, and anoint him, for this is he.
Elon the Zebulunite died, and was buried in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun, one.
He went down, and talked with the woman, and she pleased Samson well.
All things do without murmurings and reasonings,
The tent also and all the vessels of ministering, in like manner, he sprinkled with blood.
And Jonathan went on crying out after the boy, Be alive, do not keep waiting about, go quickly. And Jonathan's boy bought the arrow and came back to his master.
And he said unto him, God forbid; thou shalt not die: behold, my father will do nothing either great or small, but that he will show it me: and why should my father hide this thing from me? it is not so.
Strengthen yourselves, and become men, O Philistines, lest ye ministering to Hebrews, as they have done to you -- then ye have become men, and have fought.'
and Ahijah, son of Ahitub, brother of I-Chabod, son of Phinehas son of Eli priest of Jehovah in Shiloh, bearing an ephod; and the people knew not that Jonathan hath gone.
And they come in unto their brethren, at Zorah and Eshtaol, and their brethren say to them, `What -- ye?'
And Samuel said: When thou wast a little one in thy own eyes, wast thou not made the head of the tribes of Israel? And Jehovah anointed thee to be king over Israel.
At the end of two months, she returned to her father, who did with her according to his vow which he had vowed. She was a So It was a custom in Israel
To the captain assembly and church of the first-born, which are written in heaven, and to God the Judge of all, and to the spirits of righteous men made perfect,
Jonathan defeated the garrison of the Philistines that was at Geba, and the Philistines heard about it. Then Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, "Let the Hebrews hear!"
and give to him a piece of a bunch of dried figs, and two clusters of raisins, and he eateth, and his spirit returneth unto him, for he hath not eaten bread nor drunk water three days and three nights.
The riders of white female donkeys, those sitting on saddle blankets, and those going on the way, talk about it!
And David took to heart these words, and was much afraid of Achish the king of Gath.
And while they were carrying it about, the band of Jehovah came upon every city with an exceeding great slaughter: and he smote the men of every city, both small and great, and they had emerods in their secret parts. And the Gethrites consulted together, and made themselves seats of above.
Some of the Hebrews crossed over the the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead. But Saul was still at Gilgal, and all the army followed him trembling.
Wherefore do ye trample upon my sacrifice and upon mine oblation which I have commanded [in my] habitation? And thou honourest thy sons above me, to make yourselves fat with the primest of all the oblations of Israel my people.
And the man Elkanah, and all his house, went up to offer unto Jehovah the yearly sacrifice, and his vow.
Therefore, holy brothers, sharers in a heavenly calling, consider Jesus, the apostle and high priest of our confession,
So Delilah took new ropes, and bound him therewith, and said to him, "The Philistines are on you, Samson!" The ambush was waiting in the inner place. He broke them off his arms like a thread.
who was faithful to the one who appointed him, as Moses was in his household.
But this man, who was not of their family, took the tenth from Abraham, and gave a blessing to him to whom God had given his undertaking.
But Samson's wife was given to the friend who had been his best man.
But all Israel and Judah loved David, because he went out and came in before them.
And the men of Israel gathered themselves together out of Naphtali, and out of Asher, and out of all Manasseh, and pursued after the Midianites.
`And the man I cut not off of thine from Mine altar, to consume thine eyes, and to grieve thy soul; and all the increase of thy house do die men;
And they went back and came to Ziph before Saul: but David and his men were in the waste land of Maon, in the dry land south of the waste land.
So Saul said, "Tell me what you have done." So Jonathan told him and said, "I merely tasted a little honey with the end of the staff that was in my hand. Here I am, I must die."
and saith unto him, `Fear not, for the hand of Saul my father doth not find thee, and thou dost reign over Israel, and I am to thee for second, and also so knoweth Saul my father.'
She sent and called Barak the son of Abinoam out of Kedesh Naphtali, and said to him, "Hasn't Yahweh, the God of Israel, commanded, 'Go and lead the way to Mount Tabor, and take with you ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali and of the children of Zebulun?
And David had word in the waste land that Nabal was cutting the wool of his sheep.
Then the lords of the Philistines brought up to her seven fresh cords which had not been dried up, and she bound him with them.
And ye have quite forgotten the exhortation which speaks to you as to sons: My son, despise not chastening of Lord, nor faint reproved by him;
As Samuel turned around to go away, Saul grabbed the skirt of his robe, and it tore.
Then Samson said to the servant who was holding him by his hand, "Position me so that I can touch the pillars on which the house rests, so I can lean on them."
And he said to her, "Please, give me a drink of water, because I am thirsty." So she opened a skin vessel of milk and gave him a drink and covered him.
And Gideon came, and behold, a man was telling a dream to his fellow; yea, and he said, Behold, I dreamed a dream, and lo, a cake of barley-bread tumbled into the camp of Midian, and came to the tent, and smote it that it fell, and overturned it; and the tent lay along.
Therefore leaving the principles of the teaching of Christ, let us go on unto perfection; not laying again the foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith toward God,
Now between the passes by which Jonathan sought to go over to the Philistines' garrison there was a sharp rock on the one side and a sharp rock on the other side; and the name of the one Bozez, and the name of the other Seneh.
And Samuel said, How is it possible for me to go? If Saul gets news of it he will put me to death. And Jehovah said, Take a young cow with you and say, I have come to make an offering to Jehovah.
And this I pray, that your love may more and more abound in knowledge, and in all understanding;
Now Nahash the Ammonite went up and encamped against Jabesh Gilead. All the men of Jabesh said to Nahash, "Make a treaty with us and we will serve you."
and the three detachments blow with trumpets, and break the pitchers, and keep hold with their left hand on the lamps, and with their right hand on the trumpets to blow, and they cry, `The sword of Jehovah and of Gideon.'
(for many walk, of whom I told you often, and now tell you even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ:
`Let not, I pray thee, my lord set his heart to this man of worthlessness, on Nabal, for as his name so he; Nabal his name, and folly with him; and I, thy handmaid, did not see the young men of my lord whom thou didst send;
And Jehovah said to him, Peace be unto thee: fear not; thou shalt not die.
And when David's young men came, they spake to Nabal according to all these words in the name of David, and ceased.
Why then are you looking with envy on my offerings of food and of meal which were established by my word, honouring your sons before me, and making yourselves fat with all the best of the offerings of Israel, my people?
And Jehovah said to Samuel, Hearken unto their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Go ye every man unto his city.
And Jehovah being angry against Israel, delivered them into the hands of plunderers: who took them and sold them to their enemies, that dwelt round about: neither could they stand against their enemies;
If they say thus unto us, Tarry until we come to you; then we will stand still in our place, and will not go up unto them.
Now indeed even the first covenant had ordinances of divine service, and an earthly sanctuary.
And Achish believed David, saying, He hath made his people Israel utterly to abhor him; therefore he shall be my servant for ever.
And Samuel saith, `How do I go? when Saul hath heard, then he hath slain me.' And Jehovah saith, `A heifer of the herd thou dost take in thy hand, and hast said, To sacrifice to even Jehovah, I have come;
And the Philistines are fighting against Israel, and the men of Israel flee from the face of the Philistines, and fall wounded in mount Gilboa,
Moreover, my father, see, Yea, see the skirt of thy robe in my hand; for in that I cut off the skirt of thy robe, and killed thee not, know thou and see that there is neither evil nor transgression in my hand, and I have not sinned against thee; yet thou huntest my soul to take it.
I have strength for all things in him that gives me power.
for He spake in a certain place concerning the seventh thus: `And God did rest in the seventh day from all His works;'
Now, go, and thou hast smitten Amalek, and devoted all that it hath, and thou hast no pity on it, and hast put to death from man unto woman, From infant unto suckling, from ox unto sheep, from camel unto ass.'
And she said, Oh, my lord, as thy soul liveth, my lord, I am the woman that stood by thee here, praying unto Jehovah.
And I pursued after them, and smote them, and delivered it out of their mouth; and they rose up against me, and I caught them by the throat, and I strangled and killed them.
And again, when he brings the first-born into the world, he says, "And let all the angels of God worship him."
Saul took him that day, and would let him go no more home to his father's house.
and Saul, and Jonathan his son, and the people who are found with them, are abiding in Gibeah of Benjamin, and the Philistines have encamped in Michmash.
And the three eldest of the sons of Jesse had gone and followed Saul to the battle; and the names of his three sons that went to the battle were Eliab the first-born, and the second to him Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
Yet there is both straw and feed for our donkeys; and there is bread and wine also for me, and for your servant, and for the young man who is with your servants. There is no lack of anything."
For he looked for the city which hast the foundations, whose builder and maker is God.
And he tarried seven days, according to the set time that Samuel had appointed; but Samuel came not to Gilgal, and the people were scattered from him.
And David was full of fear, in the knowledge that Saul had come out to take his life; and David was in the waste land of Ziph, in Horesh.
Only to what we have attained, to the same hold on.
Do not multiply to speak lofty things, boasting: let old matters depart from your mouth: for Jehovah is a God of all knowledge, and to him are thoughts prepared.
And the woman bore a son, and called his name Samson. And the child grew, and Jehovah blessed him.
And Jephthah gathered all the men of Gilead, and fighteth with Ephraim, and the men of Gilead smite Ephraim, because they said, `Fugitives of Ephraim ye Gileadites, in the midst of Ephraim -- in the midst of Manasseh.'
In the days of Shamgar son of Anath -- In the days of Jael -- The ways have ceased, And those going in the paths go crooked ways.
And Saul's servants spoke those words in the ears of David. And David said, Is it a light thing in your eyes to be the king's son-in-law, seeing that I am a poor man, And lightly esteemed?
And David said to him, Whose man are you and where do you come from? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite; and my master went on without me because three days back I became ill.
Therefore I hope to send him at once, as soon as I see my circumstances.
in those days there is no king in Israel, each that which is right in his own eyes doth.
And Samson called unto Jehovah, and said, O Lord Jehovah, remember me, I pray thee, and strengthen me, I pray thee, only this once, O God, that I may be at once avenged of the Philistines for my two eyes.
So the elders of the assembly said, "What should we do for the remaining ones for wives, since the women from Benjamin have been destroyed?"
And the second day Benjamin went out against them from Gibeah, cutting down eighteen thousand men of the children of Israel, all swordsmen.
And as a vesture shalt thou fold them up, and they shall be changed: but thou art the same, And thy years shall not fail.
And Saul went on this side of the mountain: and David and his men were on the other side of the mountain: and David despaired of being able to escape from the face of Saul: and Saul and his men encompassed David and his men round about to take them.
I know how both to make do with little and I know how to have an abundance. In everything and in all things I have learned the secret both to be filled and to be hungry, both to have an abundance and to go without.
You are all here, O children of Israel, determine what you ought to do.
And he showeth them the entrance of the city, and they smite the city by the mouth of the sword, and the man and all his family they have sent away;
And it came to pass as they came, when David was returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, that the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul, with tabrets, with joy, and with instruments of music.
But they did not listen to their leaders, but lusted after other gods and bowed down to them. They turned away quickly from the way that their ancestors went, who had obeyed the commandment of Yahweh; they did not do as their ancestors.
Then Saul, turning back, went after the Philistines no longer: and the Philistines went back to their place.
And he took two oxen and, cutting them up, sent them through all the land of Israel by the hand of runners, saying, If any man does not come out after Saul and Samuel, this will be done to his oxen. And the fear of Jehovah came on the people and they came out like one man.
And he goeth thence unto the inhabitants of Debir (and the name of Debir formerly Kirjath-Sepher),
And Joshua dismissed the people, and the children of Israel went every man to his inheritance to possess the land.
Now when Eliab his elder brother heard this, when he was speaking with others, he was angry with David, and said: Why earnest thou hither? and why didst thou leave those few sheep in the desert? I know thy pride, and the wickedness of thy heart: that thou art come down to see the battle.
Samuel said, "Gather all Israel to Mizpah, and I will pray to Yahweh for you."
And David cometh in unto Saul, and standeth before him, and he loveth him greatly; and he is a bearer of his weapons.
And Gideon said unto them, I would desire a request of you, that ye would give me every man the rings of his prey. (for they had golden rings, because they were Ishmaelites.)
Now after the death of Joshua, the children of Israel made request to Jehovah, saying, Who is to go up first to make war for us against the Canaanites?
Now where remission of these is, there is no more oblation for sin.
And the princes of the Philistines were wroth with him; and the princes of the Philistines said unto him, Make this fellow return, that he may go again to his place which thou hast appointed him, and let him not go down with us to battle, lest in the battle he be an adversary to us; for wherewith should he reconcile them himself unto his master? should it not be with the heads of these men?
And he took off his clothing, acting like a prophet before Samuel, and falling down he was stretched out, without his clothing, all that day and all that night. This is the reason for the saying, Is even Saul among the prophets?
circumcision on the eighth day! of the race of Israel; of the tribe of Benjamin! a Hebrew of Hebrews! according to law a Pharisee!
On the morrow the new moon, the second day, David's place was empty. Saul said to Jonathan his son, "Why doesn't the son of Jesse come to eat, either yesterday, or today?"
And Samuel did that which Jehovah spake, and came to Beth-lehem. And the elders of the village trembled at his coming, and said, Comest thou peaceably?
So they came back to their brothers in Zorah and Eshtaol, and their brothers said to them, What news have you?
And they turned and fled toward the wilderness, to the rock of Rimmon, but they cut down on the main roads five thousand men; and they pursued after them up to Gidom, and they struck down two thousand men.
And Hannah rose up after they had eaten in Shiloh, and after they had drunk; (now Eli the priest sat upon the seat by the door-post of the temple of Jehovah;)
Then Saul sent messengers to take David; and they saw a company of prophets prophesying, and Samuel standing as president over them; and the Spirit of God came upon the messengers of Saul, and they also prophesied.
But at the time Saul's daughter Merab was to be given to David, she was given instead to Adriel the Meholathite as wife.
If he had been on earth he would not have been a priest at all, because there are other priests who make the offerings Ordered by the law;
But he said to me, You are with child and will give birth to a son; and now do not take any wine or strong drink or let anything unclean be your food; for the child will be separate to God from his birth to the day of his death.
Didn't I choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to go up to my altar, to burn incense, to wear an ephod before me? Didn't I give to the house of your father all the offerings of the children of Israel made by fire?
And all the chiefs of the people, and all the tribes of Israel met together in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen fit for war.
Then said they, What shall be the trespass-offering which we shall return to him? They answered, Five golden emerods, and five golden mice, according to the number of the lords of the Philistines: for one plague was on you all, and on your lords.
crying out to them. And the Danites, turning round, said to Micah, What is your trouble, that you have taken up arms?
They surrounded Benjamin: they pursued them without rest and trod them down opposite Gibeah to the east.
And you know, O Philippians, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church I laid with me as concerning giving and receiving, but you only:
And it came to pass, when the Philistine arose, and came and advanced to meet David, that David hasted, and ran towards the ranks to meet the Philistine.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people went out into the field; and they told Abimelech.
And David fled, and escaped, and came to Samuel to Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt in Naioth.
So Jephthah fled from the presence of his brothers, and he lived in the land of Tob. And outlaws gathered around Jephthah and went with him.
Have this in your mind, which was also in Christ Jesus,
He said to them, "From the eater came out food, From the strong came out sweet." But they were unable to explain the riddle for three days.
And Deborah said to Barak, Up; for this is the day in which Jehovah hath given Sisera into thy hand! Is not Jehovah gone out before thee? And Barak went down from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
and Jonathan addeth to cause David to swear, because he loveth him, for with the love of his own soul he hath loved him.
So that you may not be slow in heart, but may take as your example those to whom God hast given their heritage, because of their faith and their long waiting.
And so they went on the journey they had begun. But Michas seeing that they were stronger than he, returned to his house.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they went every man to his place.
And he giveth back the money to his mother, and his mother taketh two hundred silverlings, and giveth them to a refiner, and he maketh them a graven image, and a molten image, and it is in the house of Micah.
because for the sake of the work he drew near even to death, venturing his life that he might fill up what lacked in your ministration toward me.
And the men of Israel, turning again against the children of Benjamin, put to the sword without mercy all the towns and the cattle and everything there was, burning every village which came into their hands.
and the woman cometh in at the turning of the morning, and falleth at the opening of the man's house, where her lord , till the light.
And now know and consider what thou wilt do, for evil is determined against our master, and against all his household; and he is such a son fellow, that one cannot speak to him.
The satiated for bread hired themselves, And the hungry have ceased. While the barren hath borne seven; And she abounding with sons hath languished.
And David came to the two hundred men who had been too exhausted to follow David, and whom they had left behind at the torrent Besor; and they went forth to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him; and David drew near to the people and saluted them.
The law makes high priests of men who are feeble; but the word of oath, which was made after the law, gives that position to a Son, in whom all good is for ever complete.
And if they remember that land from which they went out, they would have had opportunity to return.
But Hannah answered and said, "No, my lord. I am a woman deeply distressed, but I have not drunk wine or strong drink. Rather, I have poured out my soul before Yahweh.
And David said to Saul, Thy servant fed his father's sheep, and there came a lion, and also a bear, and took a lamb out of the flock.
For he that is entered into his rest, the same also hath rested from his works, as God did from his.
Then Samuel took a stone, and set it between Mizpeh and Shen, and called the name of it Ebenezer, saying, Hitherto hath Jehovah helped us.
And when they went into Micah's house and took out the pictured image and the ephod and the family gods and the metal image, the priest said to them, What are you doing?
and Jesse causeth Shammah to pass by, and he saith, `Also on this Jehovah hath not fixed.'
So Jonathan got up from the table, burning with wrath, and took no portion in the feast the second day of the month, being full of grief for David because his father had put shame on him.
Only, as far as we have bought, let us be guided by the same rule.
So David, questioning Jehovah, said, Am I to go and make an attack on these Philistines? And Jehovah said to David, Go and make an attack on the Philistines so that Keilah may be kept from falling into their hands.
And the elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, "Yahweh will be a witness between us; we will act according to your word."
Neither did Manasseh drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shean and its towns, nor Taanach and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Dor and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Ibleam and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Megiddo and its towns: but the Canaanites would dwell in that land.
So may destruction come on all your haters, O Jehovah; but let your lovers be like the sun going out in his strength. And for forty years the land had peace.
And Jonathan said to him, To-morrow is the new moon; and thou wilt be missed, for thy seat will be empty;
And Barac pursued after the fleeing chariots and the army unto Haroseth of the Gentiles, and all the multitude of the enemies was utterly destroyed.
Then Yahweh's word came to Samuel, saying,
I have not sinned against you; but you are the one who is doing wrong by making war against me. Let Yahweh judge to-day between the Israelites and the Ammonites."
Now therefore know and consider what you will do: for evil is determined against our master, and against all his house; for he is such a worthless man that one can't speak to him."
For the first Tent was made ready, having in it the vessels for lights and the table and the ordering of bread; and this is named the holy place.
And Jehovah was with Joda, and he possessed the hill country; but was not able to destroy the inhabitants of the valley, because they had many chariots armed with scythes.
And there went from thence of the family of the Danites, out of Zoreah and out of Eshtaol, six hundred men girded with weapons of war.
And after she had weaned him, she carried him with her, with three calves, and three bushels of flour, and a bottle of wine, and she brought him to the house of Jehovah in Silo. Now the child was as yet very young:
Then the trees said to the fig-tree, You come and be king over us.
Then Heli said to her: Go in peace: and the God of Israel grant thee thy petition, which thou hast asked of him.
Now when the Philistine made a move and came near to David, David quickly went at a run in With the army, meeting the Philistine face to face.
There is none holy as Jehovah is: for there is no other besides thee, and there is none strong like our God.
The men of Israel and of Judah arose and shouted, and pursued the Philistines as far as Gai and to the gates of Ekron. The wounded of the Philistines fell down by the way to Shaaraim, even to Gath and to Ekron.
And I will send my boy to have a look for the arrow. And if I say to him, See, the arrow is on this side of you; take it out! then you may come; for there is peace for you and no evil, by the living Lord.
Now Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel were in the valley of Elah, fighting with the Philistines.
Only conduct yourselves worthily of the glad tidings of the Christ, in order that whether coming and seeing you, or absent, I may hear of what concerns you, that ye stand firm in one spirit, with one soul, laboring together in the same conflict with the faith of the glad tidings,
And the spirit of Yahweh came upon him, and he judged Israel. He went out to war, and Yahweh gave Cushan-Rishathaim king of Ram into his hand, and he prevailed over Cushan-Rishathaim.
and to those in Aroer, and to those in Siphmoth, and to those in Eshtemoa
The elders of Jabesh said to him, "Give us seven days, that we may send messengers to all the borders of Israel; and then, if there is no one to save us, we will come out to you."
And the angel of Jehovah said to Manue: From all the things I have spoken of to thy wife, let her refrain herself:
And Saul listened to the voice of Jonathan and swore, "As Yahweh lives, he will not be put to death!"
And they will not teach each one his fellow citizen and each one his brother, saying, 'Know the Lord,' because they will all know me, from the least of them to the greatest.
So that from one man, who was near to death, came children in number as the stars in heaven, or as the sand by the seaside, which may not be numbered.
to know him, and the power of his rising again, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death,
And when Gedeon was come, one told his neighbor a dream: and in this manner related what he had seen: I dreamt a dream, and it seemed to me as if a pan cake of barley bread rolled and came down into the camp of Madian: and when it was come to a tent it struck it, and beat it down flat to the ground.
And the men of Judah said, Why are ye come up against us? And they said, To bind Samson are we come up, to do to him as he hast done to us.
In the days of Shamgar the son of Anath, in the days of Jael, the highways were unoccupied, and the travellers walked through byways.
that all of you have conspired against me, and there is no one who discloses to me when my son makes a treaty with the son of Jesse, and there is none of you who is sorry for me, or discloses to me that my son hast stirred up my servant against me, to lie in wait, as it is today?"
He changed his behavior before them, and pretended to be insane in their hands, and scribbled on the doors of the gate, and let his spittle fall down on his beard.
For they came up with their cattle and their tents, and they came as locusts for multitude; both they and their camels were without number; and they entered into the land to destroy it.
When they reported to Sisera that Barak son of Abinoam had gone up to Mount Tabor,
and ye do not turn aside after the vain things which do not profit nor deliver, for they vain,
You will roll them up like a robe, and they will be changed; but you are the same. Your years will not fail."
To-day have I begun to ask for him at God? far be it from me! let not the king lay anything against his servant, against any of the house of my father, for thy servant hath known nothing of all this, less or more.'
And they passed on and went their way; and the sun went down upon them [when they were] by Gibeah, which belongs to Benjamin.
Who can have compassion on the ignorant, and on them that are out of the way; for that he himself also is compassed with infirmity.
And he ran to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou calledst me. And he said, I did not call: lie down again. And he went and lay down.
And he bringeth him in to his house, and mixeth for the asses, and they wash their feet, and eat and drink.
And they arose early; and when it was about the dawning of the day, Samuel called to Saul on the roof, saying, Arise, that I may send thee away. And Saul arose, and they went out both of them, he and Samuel, into the street.
And he divided the three hundred men into three parts, and gave them trumpets in their hands, and empty pitchers, and lamps within the pitchers.
And Joshua son of Nun, servant of Yahweh, died at the age of one hundred and ten years.
He found a fresh jawbone of a donkey, put out his hand, took it, and struck a thousand men with it.
Then Saul's anger burned against Jonathan, and he said to him, "You son of a perverse rebellious woman, don't I know that you have chosen the son of Jesse to your own shame, and to the shame of your mother's nakedness?
Then Samuel said to him, "Yahweh hast torn the kingdom of Israel from you to-day and hast given it to your neighbor who is better than you.
So Saul returned from pursuing David, and he went to confront the Philistines. Therefore, they called that place the Rock of Division.
By him therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise always to God, that is to say, the fruit of lips confessing to his name.
And Samson's wife was given to his companion who was his best man.
The people, the princes of Gilead, said to one another, "Who is the man who will begin to fight against the children of Ammon? He shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead."
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
And when I shall come thither, we will lodge there, or at least in the city of Rama.
But David went and returned from Saul to feed his father's sheep at Beth-lehem.
And the haft also went in after the blade; and the fat closed upon the shoulder-blade, so that he could not draw the dagger out of his belly; and the mire came out.
He will take one tenth of your seed, and of your vineyards, and give it to his officers, and to his servants.
and now, rise up by night, thou and the people that are with thee, and ambush in the field.
And by faith Sarah herself had power to give birth, when she was very old, because she had faith in him who gave his word;
Saul said, "Disperse yourselves among the people, and tell them, 'Every man bring me here his ox, and every man his sheep, and kill them here, and eat; and don't sin against Yahweh in eating food with the blood.'" All the people brought every man his ox with him that night, and killed them there.
By faith Abraham, being called, obeyed to go out into the place which he was to receive for an inheritance, and went out, not knowing where he was going.
For this boy I prayed; and even Jehovah, hast granted me my petition which I asked of him.
And it came to pass, as soon as Gideon was dead, that the children of Israel turned again, and played the harlot after the Baalim, and made Baalberith their god.
So they reported it to Saul, saying, "Look! The troops are sinning against Yahweh by eating the animals with the blood!" And he said, "You have dealt treacherously! Roll to me a large stone today!"
Then David ran and stood over the Philistine and took his sword and drew it from itself sheath and killed him and cut off his head with it. When the Philistines saw that their champion was dead, they fled.
And Saul took the kingdom over Israel, and fought against all his enemies round about, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines; and whithersoever he turned himself, he discomfited .
And when the angel of Jehovah spoke these words to all the children of Israel, they lifted up their voice, and wept.
The man of yours, whom I don't cut off from my altar, will consume your eyes and grieve your heart; and all the increase of your house will die in the flower of their age.
And the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked, and, behold, the multitude melted away, and they went on slaying one another.
And thus shall ye say: Long life [to thee]! and peace be to thee, and peace be to thy house, and peace be to all that thou hast!
When she had weaned him, she took him up with her, with three bulls, and one ephah of meal, and a bottle of wine, and brought him to Yahweh's house in Shiloh. The child was young.
And David saw that Saul was come out to seek his life. And David was in the wilderness of Ziph, in a wood.
so that it became evident to the whole palace guard, and to all the rest, that my bonds are in Christ;
And they came in before Gibeah, ten thousand of the best men in all Israel, and the fighting became more violent; but the children of Benjamin were not conscious that evil was coming on them.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah gave them up into the hand of Midian for seven years.
Now therefore what is under thy hand? give me five loaves of bread in my hand, or what there is present.
Do not be carried away by various and strange teachings, for it is good for the heart to be strengthened by grace, not by foods by which those who participate have not benefited.
Who shall change our vile body, that it may be fashioned like unto his glorious body, according to the working whereby he is able even to subdue all things unto himself.
having the same conflict which ye have seen in me, and now hear of in me.
And to those in Arara and Eshtemoa
For if we sin willfully after we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remains no more a sacrifice for sins,
and Ehud putteth forth his left hand, and taketh the sword from off his right thigh, and striketh it into his belly;
And it shall be, when these signs are come unto thee, that thou do as occasion serve thee; for God is with thee.
For in that he himself hath suffered being tempted, he is able to succor them that are tempted.
Then he made the tribe of Benjamin come near by families, and the family of the Matrites was taken: and from them, Saul, the son of Kish, was taken: but when they went in search of him he was nowhere to be seen.
David said to Jonathan, "Look, tomorrow is the new moon, and I should certainly sit with the king to eat. You must send me away so that I can hide myself in the field until the third evening.
But David went and returned from Saul to feed his father's sheep at Beth-lehem.
And in the morning at sunrise, get up and rush the city; and look, when he and the troops who are with him come out to you, you must act according to whatever opportunity offers itself.
and thou hast called for Jesse in the sacrifice, and I cause thee to know that which thou dost do, and thou hast anointed to Me him of whom I speak unto thee.'
And it cometh to pass, in their coming in, that he seeth Eliab, and saith, `Surely, before Jehovah His anointed.'
And he said to his servant, "Come, let us approach one of these places; we will spend the night in Gibeah or in Ramah."
And they indeed from among the sons of Levi, who receive the priesthood, have commandment to take tithes from the peoples according to the law, that is from their brethren, though these are come out of the loins of Abraham:
After a while, the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
And they said to him: Hold thy peace and put thy finger on thy mouth and come with us, that we may have thee for a father, and a priest. Whether is better for thee, to be a priest in the house of one man, or in a tribe and family in Israel?
And afterwards they cried to Jehovah, who raised them up a saviour called Aod, the son of Gera, the son of Jemini, who used the left hand as well as the right. And the children of Israel sent presents to Eglon king of Moab by him.
Lest there be any fornicator, or profane person, as Esau, who for one morsel of food sold his birthright.
Wherefore I also said, I will not drive them out from before you; but they shall be as thorns in your sides, and their gods shall be a snare unto you.
Now at that time the Philistines came together to make war against Israel, and the men of Israel went out to war against the Philistines and took up their position at the side of Eben-ezer: and the Philistines put their forces in position in Aphek.
Then he went on through the waste land and round the land of Edom and the land of Moab, and came by the east side of the land of Moab, and put up their tents on the other side of the Arnon; they did not come inside the limit of Moab, for the Arnon was the limit of Moab.
And the people also seeing this, praised their god, and said the same: Our god hath delivered our adversary into our hordes, him that destroyed our country and killed very many.
Who being the brightness of his glory, and the figure of his substance, And upholding all things by the word of his power, making purgation of sins, sitteth on the right hand of the majesty on high.
And all the trees said to the bramble: Come thou and reign over us.
Your servant hast struck down both the lion and the bear, and this uncircumcised Philistine will be like one of them, because he defied the battle lines of the living God."
and he saith to his men, `Far be it from me, by Jehovah; I do not do this thing to my lord -- to the anointed of even Jehovah, -- to put forth my hand against him, for the anointed of even Jehovah, he .'
Then God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem; and the men of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech:
Now therefore stand still, that I may contend with you before Yahweh concerning all the righteous acts of Yahweh, which he did to you and to your fathers.
to know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death,
Do all things without murmurings and disputings:
For the rest, my brethren, rejoice in Lord: to write the same things to you, to me not irksome, and for you safe.
And to whom sware he that they should not enter into his rest, but to those who had not hearkened to the word?
without faith it is impossible to be well pleasing to him, for he who comes to God must believe that he exists, and that he is a rewarder of those who seek him.
And her husband riseth and goeth after her, to speak unto her heart, to bring her back, and his young man with him, and a couple of asses therewith; and she bringeth him into the house of her father, and the father of the young woman seeth him, and rejoiceth to meet him.
And David said to him, Canst thou bring me down to this troop? And he said, Swear to me by God, that thou wilt neither put me to death nor deliver me up into the hand of my master, and I will bring thee down to this troop.
And all the masters of Shechem are gathered together, and all the house of Millo, on the way and come and cause Abimelech to reign for king at the oak of the camp which in Shechem;
and to a mediator of a new covenant -- Jesus, and to blood of sprinkling, speaking better things than that of Abel!
But lighting upon the spoils, they took sheep and oxen, and calves, and slew them on the ground; and the people ate them with the blood.
But he himself turned back from the stone idols that were by Gilgal, and said, "I have a secret message for you, O king." The king said, "Keep silence!" All who stood by him left him.
And he smote them from Aroer, even till thou come to Minnith, even twenty cities, and unto the plain of the vineyards, with a very great slaughter. Thus the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
No, my sons, the account which was given me, which Lord's people are sending about, is not good.
`And your daughters he doth take for perfumers, and for cooks, and for bakers;
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the lords of Shechem, and the lords of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech,
but ye have come to mount Zion; and to city of living God, heavenly Jerusalem; and to myriads of angels,
Some indeed preach Christ even out of envy and strife, and some also out of good will.
And Samuel said, Why then dost thou inquire of me, seeing even Jehovah, is departed from thee, and is become thine enemy?
Then all the people got up as one man and said, Not one of us will go to his tent or go back to his house:
And had taken the women captives that were in it, both little and great: and they had not killed any person, but had carried them with them, and went on their way.
so that I may know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death,
Accounting that God was able to raise him up, even from the dead; from whence also he received him in a figure.
Obey your leaders and submit to them, for they watch on behalf of your souls, as those who will give money, that they may do this with joy, and not with groaning, for that would be unprofitable for you.
When Jehovah hath looked after Hannah, then she conceiveth and beareth three sons and two daughters; and the youth Samuel groweth up with Jehovah.
and this we will do, if God may permit,
And Saul saw and knew that Jehovah was with David, and that Michal Saul's daughter loved him.
Be anxious for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God.
They each stood in his place around the camp; and all the army ran; and they shouted, and put them to flight.
By faith the walls of Jericho fell down, by the going round them seven days.
Jonathan said, "Far be it from you; for if I should at all know that evil were determined by my father to come on you, then wouldn't I tell you that?"
To him succeeded Jair the Galaadite, who judged Israel for two and twenty years.
And Gaal son of Ebel and his relatives came, and they crossed over into Shechem, and the lords of Shechem gave him confidence.
And David behaved himself wisely in all his ways; and Jehovah was with him.
And they went up into the city; and when they were come into the city, behold, Samuel came out against them, to go up to the high place.
And David said unto him, To whom belongest thou? and whence art thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite; and my master left me, because three days agone I fell sick.
"The bramble said to the trees, 'If in truth you anoint me king over you, then come and take refuge in my shade; and if not, let fire come out of the bramble, and devour the cedars of Lebanon.'
for both he who is sanctifying and those sanctified all of one, for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren,
Again, "I will put my trust in him." Again, "Behold, here I am with the children whom God hast given me."
And all Israel when they saw the man, fled from his face, fearing him exceedingly.
Yea, and if I be made a victim upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice, and bless with you all.
And he saith unto her, `Give me to drink, I pray thee, a little water, for I am thirsty;' and she openeth the bottle of milk, and giveth him to drink, and covereth him.
And your fields, and your vineyards, and your oliveyards, the best, will he take and give to his servants.
And all the people arose as one man, saying, We will not any of us go to his tent, neither will we any of us turn into his house.
Let us go forth therefore unto him without the camp, bearing his reproach.
And that there may not be any evil liver, or any man without respect for God, like Esau, who let his birthright go for a plate of food.
And Eli was very old, and heard all that his sons were doing to all Israel, and that they lay with the women that served at the entrance of the tent of meeting.
Therefore they turn their backs before the men of Israel to the way of the wilderness; but the battle followed hard after them; and those who came out of the cities destroyed them in the middle of it.
Now when David understood, that Saul secretly prepared evil against him, he said to Abiathar the priest: Bring hither the ephod.
And they command the sons of Benjamin, saying, `Go -- and ye have laid wait in the vineyards,
For men verily swear by the greater; and an oath for confirmation is to them an end of all strife.
Jonathan gave his weapons to his servant and said to him, "Go, bring them to the city."
For it is not possible that the blood of bulls and of goats should take away sins.
And even Jehovah, destroyeth Sisera, and all the chariots, and all the camp, by the mouth of the sword, before Barak, and Sisera cometh down from off the chariot, and fleeth on his feet.
Then Gideon came to the the Jordan, crossing it with the three hundred men who were with him, weary and pursuing.
And David went over to the other side, and stood on the top of a hill afar off; a great space between them.
So day after day she gave him no peace, for ever questioning him till his soul was troubled to death.
And when Saul seeth David going out to meet the Philistine, he hath said unto Abner, head of the host, `Whose son this -- the youth, Abner?' and Abner saith, `Thy soul liveth, O king, I have not known.'
And he took the people, and divided them into three bands, and lay in ambush in the field. And he looked, and, behold, the people came forth out of the city; and he rose up against them and smote them.
They passed from there to the hill-country of Ephraim, and came to the house of Micah.
For the bodies of those animals whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sins are burned up outside the camp.
Now there was no smith found throughout all the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make them swords or spears:
And after that David came out of the hollow rock, and crying after Saul said, My lord the king. And when Saul gave a look back, David went down on his face and gave him honor.
And call Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will tell thee what thou shalt do; and thou shalt anoint unto me him whom I name unto thee.
And Saul tarried in the uttermost part of Gibeah under a pomegranate tree which is in Migron: and the people that were with him were about six hundred men;
When he finished speaking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan became attached to the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
and in nothing frightened by the adversaries, which is for them a proof of destruction, but to you of salvation, and that from God.
And he said, Why does my lord thus pursue after his servant? for what have I done? or what evil is in my hand?
And in the morning, when the fulfilment of the wine was gone, Nabal's wife gave him a account of all these things, and all the heart went out of him, and he became like stone.
And Delilah seeth that he hath declared to her all his heart, and she sendeth and calleth for the princes of the Philistines, saying, `Come up this time, for he hath declared to me all his heart;' and the princes of the Philistines have come up unto her, and bring up the money in their hand.
So Jephthah went in flight from his brothers and was living in the land of Tob, where a number of good-for-nothing men, joining Jephthah, went out with him on his undertakings.
Jonathan said to David, "Go in peace, because we have both sworn in Yahweh's name, saying, 'Yahweh is between me and you and between my offspring and your offspring, forever.'" He arose and departed, having and Jonathan went into the city.
So they that were gone in took away the graven thing, the ephod, and the idols, and the molten god. And the priest said to them: What are you doing?
And Israel lived in the midst of the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Amorite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
Remember them that are in bonds, as bound with them; and them that suffer adversity, as being yourselves also in the body.
And they say, `Thou hast not oppressed us, nor hast thou crushed us, nor hast thou taken from the hand of any one anything.'
Then said Achish unto his servants, Lo, ye see the man is mad; wherefore then have ye brought him to me?
Then Samuel said to the people, Have no fear: truly you have done evil, but do not be turned away from Jehovah; be his servants with all your heart;
Then said Saul unto his servants, Seek me a woman that hath a familiar spirit, that I may go to her, and inquire of her. And his servants said to him, Behold, there is a woman that hath a familiar spirit at Endor.
And Saul said to Samuel: Yea I have hearkened to the voice of Jehovah, and have walked in the way by which Jehovah sent me, and have brought Agag the king of Amalec, and Amalec I have slain.
And Jehovah said to Samuel: Look not on his countenance, nor on the height of his stature: because I have rejected him, nor do I judge according to the look of man; for man seeth the things that be manifested, but Jehovah beholdeth the heart.
but he who hast no genealogy from them hast tithed Abraham, and blessed him who had the promises.
And the children of Israel said to Jehovah: We have sinned, do thou unto us whatsoever pleaseth thee: only deliver us this time.
nor that he may many times offer himself, even as the chief priest doth enter into the holy places every year with blood of others;
And God rendered back the wickedness of Abimelech, which he did to his father in slaying his seventy brethren.
In those days there was no king in Israel; each one did what was right in his own eyes;
And it came to pass after the death of Joshua that the children of Israel asked Jehovah, saying, Who of us shall go up against the Canaanites first, to fight against them?
On the fourth day, they gat up early in the morning, and he rose up to depart. The young lady's father said to his son-in-law, "Strengthen your heart with a morsel of bread, and afterward you shall go your way."
And the anger of Saul burneth against Jonathan, and he saith to him, `Son of a perverse rebellious woman! have I not known that thou art fixing on the son of Jesse to thy shame, and to the shame of the nakedness of thy mother?
And they ran and fetched him thence: and he stood in the midst of the people, and he was higher than any of the people from the shoulder-pieces and upward.
And the king said, You will certainly be put to death, Ahimelech, you and all your father's family.
For God not unrighteous to forget your work, and the love which ye have shewn to his name, having ministered to the saints, and ministering.
But if you be without chastisement, whereof all are made partakers, then are you bastards, and not sons.
And he sent messengers throughout all Manasseh; who also was gathered after him: and he sent messengers unto Asher, and unto Zebulun, and unto Naphtali: and they came up to meet them.
But if I say to the boy, See, the arrow hast gone past you; then go on your way, for Jehovah hast sent you away.
So that punishment for the violent attack made on the seventy sons of Jerubbaal, and for their blood, might come on Abimelech, their brother, who put them to death, and on the townsmen of Shechem who gave him their help in putting his brothers to death.
those who were full are offering themselves as servants for bread; those who were in need are at rest; truly, she who had no children hast become the mother of seven, and she who had a family is wasted with sorrow.
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came, and fetched up the ark of Jehovah, and brought it into the house of Abinadab in the hill, and sanctified Eleazar his son to keep the ark of Jehovah.
For, the priesthood being changed, there takes place of necessities a change of law also.
And Saul said, Blessed be ye of Jehovah; for ye have compassion on me.
And the tribes of Israel send men among all the tribes of Benjamin, saying, `What this evil which hath been among you?
Then Jehovah said to Samuel,
And they said to Jephthah, Come, and be our captain, that we may fight against the children of Ammon.
Then Abigail quickly got up and rode on the donkey, along with five of her handmaids who attended her, and she went after the messengers of David and became his wife.
Then Saul hurled his spear at him to kill him. So Jonathan knew that his father had decided to kill David.
And the sons of Judah fight against Jerusalem, and capture it, and smite it by the mouth of the sword, and the city they have sent into fire;
But Samuel was not pleased when they said to him, Give us a king to be our judge. And Samuel made prayer to Jehovah.
Because of this, let us have a strong desire to come into that rest, and let no one go after the example of those who went against God's orders.
And his servant said to him, Do whatever is in your mind; see, I am with you in every impulse of your heart.
By faith Moses, when he was grown up, denied himself to be the son of Pharao's daughter;
Now the Philistines fought against Israel: and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain on Mount Gilboa.
Keep here with me and have no fear; for he who hast designs on my life hast designs on yours: but with me you will be safe.
Then David said to Achish, "Please, if I have found favor in your eyes, then let them give me a place in one of the country towns that I can live there. Why should your servant live in the royal city with you?"
And the people, the men of Israel, took courage, and set the battle in array in the place where they put themselves in array the first day.
Watch out that you do not refuse the one who is speaking! For if those did not escape when they refused the one who warned them on earth, much less will we escape, if we reject the one who warns from heaven,
and Saul saith unto the Kenite, `Go, turn aside, go down from the midst of Amalek, lest I consume thee with it, and thou didst kindness with all the sons of Israel, in their going up out of Egypt;' and Kain turneth aside from the midst of Amalek.
And to whom did he make an oath that they might not come into his rest? was it not to those who went against his orders?
If thus he say: Good; peace for thy servant; and if it be very displeasing to him -- know that the evil hath been determined by him;
Barak summoned Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh; and they went up behind him, ten thousand men, and Deborah went up with him.
From thence they passed into mount Ephraim. And when they were come to the house of Michas,
Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the concision.
for he put his life in hand, and smote the Philistine, and Jehovah wrought a great salvation for all Israel: thou didst see , and didst rejoice; why then wilt thou sin against innocent blood, in slaying David without cause?
And it came to pass when she pressed him daily with its words and urged him, that his soul was vexed unto death;
And there were found of Benjamin five and twenty thousand men that drew the sword, besides the inhabitants of Gabaa,
So seating themselves they had food and drink, the two of them together; and the girl's father said to the man, If it is your pleasure, take your rest here tonight, and let your heart be glad.
And they put his armor in the house of Ashtaroth: and they fastened his body to the wall of Bethshan.
And it came to pass, from the day that the ark abode in Kirjath-jearim, that time was long; for it was twenty years. And all the house of Israel lamented after Jehovah.
For here we have no fixed resting-place, but our search is for the one which is to come.
And David said to him: To whom dost thou belong? or whence dost thou come? and whither art thou going? He said: I am a young man of Egypt, the servant of an Amalecite, and my master left me, because I began to be sick three days ago.
And all the people said to Samuel, Pray to Jehovah thy God for thy servants, that we die not; for we have added to all our sins the wickedness to ask for ourselves a king.
So they went quickly and made him come out; and when he took his place among the people, he was taller by a head than any of the people.
And Gideon made an ephod from them and put it up in his village Ophrah; and all Israel went after it there and were false to Jehovah; and it became a cause of sin to Gideon and his house.
Now, behold, the king walks before you. I am old and gray-headed. Behold, my sons are with you. I have walked before you from my youth unto this day.
they have compassed the Benjamites -- they have pursued them -- with ease they have trodden them down till over-against Gibeah, at the sun-rising.
They will come to their end, but you are for ever; they will become old as a robe;
And I will shoot three arrows on the side of it, as though I shot at a mark.
And in the same way also you rejoice and rejoice with me.
As saith proverb of the aged, Wickedness proceedeth from the wicked; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
And Jonathan Saul's son arose, and went to David into the wood, and strengthened his hand in God.
Thou hast loved righteousness and hast hated lawlessness; therefore God, thy God, hast anointed thee with oil of gladness above thy companions.
and said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways: now make us a king to judge us like all the nations.
And Samuel saith, `Hath even Jehovah, had delight in burnt-offerings and sacrifices as Hearkening to the voice of Jehovah? lo, Hearkening than sacrifice is worse; to give attention than fat of rams;
And Manoah said unto the angel of Jehovah, I pray thee, let us detain thee, until we shall have made ready a kid for thee.
So then, go and attack Amalek and utterly destroy all that is his! You must not spare him, but kill both man and woman, both child and nursing infant, both ox and sheep, both camel and donkey.'"
They that before had made as if they fled, turning their faces stood bravely against them; which the children of Benjamin seeing, turned their backs,
And he said to her, Give me, I pray thee, a little water to drink, for I am thirsty. And she opened the flask of milk, and gave him drink, and covered him.
Then he took his staff in his hand, picked out for himself five smooth stones from the wadi, and he put them in his shepherd's bag, in the pouch. And with his sling in his hand, he drew near the Philistine.
Then David came to Nob, to Ahimelech the priest: and Ahimelech was full of fear at meeting David, and said to him, Why are you by yourself, having no man with you?
He went up and told his father and mother, and he said, "I saw a woman in Timnah from the daughters of the Philistines; so then, take her for me as a wife."
And he said to his lad, Run, find now the arrows which I shoot. The lad ran, and he shot the arrow beyond him.
And he had greaves of bronze upon its legs, and a spear of bronze between his shoulders.
That through them I may try Israel, whether they will keep the way of Jehovah, and walk in it, as their fathers kept it, or not.
And the people came to the house of God, and abode there till even before God, and lifted up their voice, and wept plague;
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Jishvi, and Malchi-shua. And the names of his two daughters: the name of the first-born Merab, and the name of the younger Michal.
convicted by this same thing, that the one who began a good work in you will finish it until the day of Christ Jesus,
In those days there was no king in Israel, and the tribe of Dan sought them an inheritance to dwell in; for unto that day they had not received their lot among the other tribes.
And then one day when Eli was lying in his place (now his eyes had begun to grow weak so that he was not able to see)
And from there they went to the inhabitants of Debir (the former name of Debir was Kiriath Sepher).
And he said unto her, Give me, I pray thee, a little water to drink; for I am thirsty. And she opened a bottle of milk, and gave him drink, and covered him.
And Manoah taketh the goat, and the present, and offereth on the rock to Jehovah, and He is doing wonderfully, and Manoah and his wife are looking on,
And thou shalt see an oppressor [in my] habitation, amidst all the good that shall be done to Israel; and there shall not be an old man in thy house for ever.
(Of whom the world was not worthy:) they wandered in deserts, and in mountains, and in caves and holes of the earth.
Let us hasten therefore to enter into that rest; lest any man fall into the same example of unbelief.
Yahweh confused Sisera, all his chariots, and all his army, with the edge of the sword before Barak. Sisera abandoned his chariot and fled away on his feet.
And David bought back everything the Amalekite had taken; and he bought back his two wives.
As soon as you have come into the city, you will immediately find him, before he goes up to the high place to eat; for the people will not eat until he come, because he blesses the sacrifice. And those who are invited eat. Now therefore go up; for this time you will find him."
And Abimelech gat him up to mount Zalmon, he and all the people that were with him; and Abimelech took an axe in his hand, and cut down a bough from the trees, and took it, and laid it on his shoulder, and said unto the people that were with him, What ye have seen me do, make haste, and do as I have done.
Then Abishai said to David, "God hast delivered up your enemy into your hand today. Now therefore please let me strike him with the spear to the earth at one stroke, and I will not strike him the second time."
But the matter was displeasing to Samuel when they said, "Give us a king to judge us," so Samuel prayed to Yahweh.
Who is faithful to him that made him, as was also Moses in all his house.
And it came to pass in the morning, that Jonathan went out into the field at the time appointed with David, and a little lad with him.
The youth hath gone, and David hath risen from Ezel, at the south, and falleth on his face to the earth, and boweth himself three times, and they kiss one another, and they weep one with another, till David exerted himself;
And Samuel grew up, and Yahweh was with him. He did not know any of his prophecies to go unfulfilled.
He mustered them at Bezek; the Israelites were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah were thirty thousand.
and Jesse took five cakes of bread and a skin of wine and a young goat and sent them to Saul by David.
Zebulun did not make the people of Kitron or the people of Nahalol go out; but the Canaanites went on living among them and were put to forced work.
and Saul casteth the javelin, and saith, `I smite through David, even through the wall;' and David turneth round out of his presence twice.
Jonathan told David, saying, "Saul my father seeks to kill you. Now therefore, please take care of yourself in the morning, and live in a cellar, and hide yourself.
And David taketh the spear, and the cruse of water at the pillow of Saul, and they go away, and there is none seeing, and there is none knowing and there is none awaking, for all of them are dreaming, for a deep sleep Jehovah hath fallen upon them.
so that the violence done to the seventy brothers of Abimelech would be avenged and their blood be placed on Abimelech their brother, who killed them, and on the lords of Shechem, who helped to kill his brothers.
Behold, as your life was respected to-day in my eyes, so let my life be respected in Yahweh's eyes, and let him deliver me out of all oppression."
And David said to Achish, Thereby thou shalt know what thy servant can do. And Achish said to David, Therefore will I make thee keeper of my person for ever.
Wherefore David arose and went, he and his men, and slew of the Philistines two hundred men; and David brought their foreskins, and they gave them in full number to the king, that he might be the king's son in law. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter to wife.
And he said to him, O Jehovah, how shall I be the Saviour of Israel? See, my family is the poorest in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
For a tent was set up; the first, in which both the candlestick and the table and the exposition of the loaves, which is called Holy:
For in a certain place he spoke of the seventh day thus: And God rested the seventh day from all his works.
By faith he sojourned in the land of promise, as in a foreign country, dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise:
for all the days that the son of Jesse liveth on the ground thou art not established, thou and thy kingdom; and now, send and bring him unto me, for he a son of death.'
And when the words were heard that David spake, they rehearsed them before Saul: and he sent for him.
Now therefore stand and see this great thing, which Jehovah will do before your eyes.
And he had a helmet of brass upon his head, and he was clothed with a coat of mail with scales, and the weight of his coat of mail was five thousand sicles of brass:
Zebulun is a people jeoparded their lives unto death, Naphtali also, on the high places of the field.
Some indeed for envy and strife, but some for good will, preach the Christ.
And Caleb went against the Canaanites of Hebron: (now in earlier times Hebron was named Kiriath-arba:) and he put Sheshai and Ahiman and Talmai to the sword.
He waited seven days according to the appointed time Samuel determined, but Samuel did not come to Gilgal, and the army started for them whose away from him.
And the men of Israel said, Have ye seen this man that comes up? to defy Israel is he come up; and it shall be, that the man who smites him, him will the king enrich with great riches, and will give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel.
They took captive the women who were in it, from the youngest to the oldest. They did not kill anyone, but carried them off and went on their way.
and so to speak, through Abraham even Levi who is receiving tithes, hath paid tithes,
He said to him, "Excuse me, my lord. How will I deliver Israel? Look, my clan is the weakest in Manasseh, and I am youngest in my father's house."
And even Jehovah, leaveth these nations, so as not to dispossess them hastily, and did not give them into the hand of Joshua.
Saul was in the thick of the battle, and the archers spotted him, and he was badly wounded by the archers.
That all of you have conspired against me, and there is none that showeth me that my son hath made a covenant with the son of Jesse, and there is none of you that is sorry for me, or showeth unto me that my son hath stirred up my servant against me, to lie in wait, as at this day?
and the golden mice -- the number of all the cities of the Philistines -- for the five princes, from the fortified city even unto the hamlet of the villages, even unto the great meadow on which they placed the ark of Jehovah -- unto this day in the field of Joshua the Beth-Shemeshite.
So they went up to the village, and when they came inside the village, Samuel came face to face with them on his way to the high place.
And the border of the Amorites was from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock, and upward.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant kept his father's sheep, and there came a lion, and a bear, and took a lamb out of the flock;
The warriors ceased; they failed to appear in Israel, until I, Deborah arose; I arose as a mother in Israel.
Yet there is both straw and provender for our asses therewith; and there is bread and wine also for me, and for thy handmaid, and for the young man which is with thy servants: there is no want of anything.
Samson called to Yahweh, and said, "Lord Yahweh, remember me, please, and strengthen me, please, only this once, God, that I may be at once avenged of the Philistines for my two eyes."
And Jehovah said to Gedeon: The people that are with thee are many, and Madian shall not be delivered into their hands: lest Israel should glory against me, and say: I was delivered by my own strength.
And it hath come to pass, every one who seeth hath said, `There hath not been -- yea, there hath not been seen like this, from the day of the coming up of the sons of Israel out of the land of Egypt till this day; set your upon it, take counsel, and speak.'
There being no man at all who brought them any succour, because they dwelt far from Sidon, and had no society or business with any man. And the city was in the land of Rohob: and they rebuilt it and dwelt therein.
And he brought them before the king of Moab; and they abode with him all the while that David was in the stronghold.
So David's young men turned on their way and returned and came and told him according to all these words.
And David said, Jehovah liveth, Jehovah will surely smite him; either his day shall come to die, or he shall descend into battle and perish.
in every where they have gone out, the hand of Jehovah hath been against them for evil, as Jehovah hath spoken, and as Jehovah hath sworn to them, and they are distressed -- greatly.
And see, my father, see the skirt of your robe in my hand; for the fact that I took off the skirt of your robe and did not put you to death is witness that I have no evil purpose, and I have done you no wrong, though you are waiting for my life to take it.
And at the death of Jair his body was put to rest in the earth in Kamon.
Then verily the first covenant had also ordinances of divine service, and a worldly sanctuary.
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armorbearer, and all his men, that same day together.
And Jephthah judged Israel six years, and Jephthah the Gileadite dieth, and is buried in [one of] the cities of Gilead.
Not giving up our meetings, as is the way of some, but keeping one another strong in faith; and all the more because you see the day coming near.
and not terrified in anything by those opposing, which to them indeed is a token of destruction, and to you of salvation, and that from God;
And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and he repeated them in the ears of Jehovah.
And there was war again: and David went out, and fought with the Philistines, and slew them with a great slaughter; and they fled from him.
So Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger, and ate no food the second day of the month); for he was grieved for David, because his father had treated him shamefully.
David and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the Philistines, and brought away their livestock, and killed them with a great slaughter. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
So now, let it be given out to the people that anyone who is shaking with fear is to go back from Mount Galud. So twenty-two thousand of the people went back, but there were still ten thousand.
And she said: The Philistines are upon thee, Samson. And roused from sleep, he said in his mind: I will go out as I did before, and shake myself, not knowing that Jehovah was departed from him.
But the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together out of the cities unto Gibeah, to go out to battle against the children of Israel.
And it came to pass, as the flame went up from off the altar towards the heavens, that the angel of Jehovah went in the flame of the altar; and Manoah and his wife looked on, and fell on their faces to the ground.
Then Yahweh said to Samuel, "How long will you mourn about Saul? I have rejected him from being king over Israel! Fill up your horn with oil and go. I will send you to Jesse the Beth-lehemite for I have chosen a king for myself among his sons."
And Samuel said to Saul: Thou hast done foolishly, and hast not kept the commandments of Jehovah thy God, which he commanded thee. And if thou hadst not done thus, Jehovah would now have established thy kingdom over Israel for ever.
After the second veil was the tent which is called the Holy of Holies,
Having, therefore, brethren, boldness for the entrance into the holy places, in the blood of Jesus,
Now after the death of Joshua it came to pass, that the children of Israel asked Jehovah, saying, Who shall go up for us against the Canaanites first, to fight against them?
But strong food is for the perfect: for them who by custom have their senses exercised to the discernings of good and evil.
Samson said to her, "If you tie me up with seven fresh bowstrings that are not dried up, I will become weak like everyone else."
And about dawn Samuel said to Saul on the roof, Get up so that I may send you away. So Saul got up, and he and Samuel went out together.
The forefront of the one was situate northward over against Michmash and the other southward over against Gibeah.
And he saith to his young man, `Come, and we draw near to one of the places, and have lodged in Gibeah, or in Ramah.'
They answered: We will give them most of free will. And spreading a mantle on the ground, they cast upon it the earlets of the spoils.
And taking prisoner a young man of the people of Succoth, he bought from him, in answer to his questionings, a list of the chiefs of Succoth and the responsible men, seventy-seven men.
And the men of David said unto him, Behold, the day of which Jehovah said unto thee, Behold, I will deliver thine enemy into thy hand, that thou mayest do to him as it shall seem good unto thee. Then David arose, and cut off the skirt of Saul's robe privily.
Let love of the brethren continue.
And Saul's son Jonathan went to David in Horesh, and made his hands strong in Jehovah:
But Nabal answered David's servants and said, "Who is David? And who is the son of Jesse? Today, there are many servants breaking away from the presence of their masters.
For he who makes holy and those who are made holy are all of one family; and for this reason it is no shame for him to give them the name of brothers,
And Saul chose him three thousand men out of Israel: there were with Saul two thousand in Michmash and in mount Beth-el, and a thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin: and the rest of the people he sent every man to his tent.
And when the messengers were come in, behold, there was an image in the bed, with a pillow of goats' hair for his bolster.
Thus the Christ also hast not glorified himself to be made a high priest; but he who had said to him, *Thou* art my Son, *I* have to-day begotten thee.
Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus at Philippi, with the Bishops and Deacons of the church:
And David's men said unto him, Behold, we be afraid here in Judah: how much more then if we come to Keilah against the armies of the Philistines?
And Achish trusted David, saying, He hast made himself utterly odious among his people Israel; and he shall be my servant for ever.
As many therefore as perfect, let us be thus minded; and if ye are any otherwise minded, this also God shall reveal to you.
And thou shalt go down before me to Gilgal, and, behold, I will come down unto thee, to offer burnt-offerings, and to sacrifice sacrifices of peace-offerings: seven days shalt thou tarry, till I come to thee, and show thee what thou shalt do.
looking diligently over lest any one be failing of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springing up may give trouble, and through this many may be defiled;
And Jonathan said to David, Jehovah, the God of Israel, when I sound my father about this time to-morrow, the next day, and behold, there be good toward David, and I then send not to thee, and apprise thee of it,
By faith he celebrated the pasch, and the shedding of the blood; that he, who destroyed the first-born, might not touch them.
But the righteous shall live by faith; and, if he draw back, my soul does not take pleasure in him.
And it was told Saul, saying, Behold, David is at Naioth by Ramah.
And he said unto them, Thus and thus hast Micah done to me; and he hast hired me, and I am his priest.
The garrison of the Philistines went out to the pass of Michmash.
So he went there to Naioth in Ramah and the Spirit of God came upon him also, and he walked along prophesying until he came to Naioth in Ramah.
They said to the messengers who came, "Tell the men of Jabesh Gilead, 'Tomorrow, by the time the sun is hot, you will be rescued.'" The messengers came and told the men of Jabesh; and they were glad.
Then said David to Jonathan, Who shall tell me? or what if thy father answer thee roughly?
By faith Abel made a better oblation to God than Cain, and he had witness through it of his righteousness, God giving his approval of his offering: and his voice still comes to us through it though he is dead.
Then said David, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, thy servant hath certainly heard that Saul seeketh to come to Keilah, to destroy the city for my sake.
The men of Jabesh said, "Tomorrow we will come out to you and you may do to us whatever seems good to you."
And it came to pass in about ten days that Jehovah smote Nabal, and he died.
And when he came unto Lehi, the Philistines shouted against him: and the Spirit of Jehovah came mightily upon him, and the cords that were upon his arms became as flax that was burnt with fire, and his bands loosed from off his hands.
And David put his hand in his bag, and took thence a stone, and slang it, and smote the Philistine in his forehead, that the stone sunk into his forehead; and he fell upon his face to the earth.
Then all the Midianites and the Amalekite and the children of the east were gathered together, and went over, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
And he had two wives; the name of the one was Hannah, and the name of the other Peninnah: and Peninnah had children, but Hannah had no children.
And that first slaughter, which Jonathan and his armorbearer made, was about twenty men, within as it were a half acre of land, which a yoke of oxen might plow.
And the men did so; and took two milch cattle, and tied them to the cart, and shut up their calves at home:
He asked water, and she gave him milk; she brought forth butter in a lordly dish.
And David sent out watchers, and got word from them that Saul was certainly coming.
And he presented the present unto Eglon king of Moab: and Eglon was a very fat man.
Let it be, when these signs have come to you, that you do what is appropriate for an occasion; for God is with you.
Now therefore stand still, that I may reason with you before Jehovah of all the righteous acts of Jehovah, which he did to you and to your fathers.
And it cometh to pass at his completing to cause the burnt-offering to ascend, that lo, Samuel hath come, and Saul goeth out to meet him, to bless him;
And his father goeth down unto the woman, and Samson maketh there a banquet, for so the young men do;
Behold, as Barak pursued Sisera, Jael came out to meet him, and said to him, "Come, and I will show you the man whom you seek." He came to her; and behold, Sisera lay dead, and the tent peg was in his temples.
And she said to him, "The Philistines are upon you, Samson!" And he woke up from his sleep and said, "I will go out just like every other time and shake myself free," but he did not know that Yahweh had left him.
Here, then, is the king marked out by you: Jehovah hast put a king over you.
and she brought it near before Saul, and before his servants, and they ate. And they rose up and went away that night.
And I went out after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth: and when he arose against me, I caught him by his beard, and smote him, and slew him.
And on their way down to the end of the village, Samuel said to Saul, Give your servant orders to go on in before us, (so he went on,) but you keep here, so that I may give you the word of God.
The tribes of Israel sent men through all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, "What wickedness is this that is happen among you?
(and the six hundred men girded with their weapons of war, who of the sons of Dan, are standing at the opening of the gate), --
So David recovered all that Amalecites had taken, and he rescued his two wives.
And the anger of Jehovah burneth against Israel, and He selleth them into the hand of Chushan-Rishathaim king of Aram-Naharaim, and the sons of Israel serve Chushan-Rishathaim eight years;
I thank my God for my whole remembrance of you,
Then Jephthah got together all the men of Gilead and made war on Ephraim; and the men of Gilead overcame Ephraim.
And David taketh the head of the Philistine, and bringeth it in to Jerusalem, and his weapons he hath put in his own tent.
And lo, Barak is pursuing Sisera, and Jael cometh out to meet him, and saith to him, `Come, and I show thee the man whom thou art seeking;' and he cometh in unto her, and lo, Sisera is fallen -- dead, and the pin in his temples.
So he showed them the entrance of the city, and they struck the city with the edge of the sword, but they let go the man and all his family.
Then were the horsehoofs broken by reason of the pransings, the pransings of their mighty ones.
And the servants of Achish said to him, Is not this David the king of the land? did they not sing one to another of him in dances, saying, Saul hast smitten his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
and there hath been the file for mattocks, and for coulters, and for three-pronged rakes, and for the axes, and to set up the goads.
Now the children of Israel had also sworn in Maspha, speaking: None of us shall give of his daughters to the children of Benjamin to wife.
The children of Dan sent five men of their family from their whole number, men of valor, from Zorah, and from Eshtaol, to spy out the land, and to search it. They said to them, "Go, explore the land!" They came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and lodged there.
And Elcana her husband said to her: Do what seemeth good to thee, and rely till thou wean him: and I pray that Jehovah may fulfill his word. So the woman stayed at home, and gave her son suck till she weaned him.
For consider the one who endured such hostility by sinners against himself, so that you will not grow weary in your souls and give up.
And it came to pass when he was come, that he blew the trumpet in the hill-country of Ephraim, and the children of Israel went down with him from the hill-country, and he before them.
Now Galaad had a wife of whom he had sons: who after they were grown up, thrust out Jephte, speaking: Thou canst not inherit in the house of our father, because thou art born of another mother.
And see, if it goeth up by the way of his own border to Beth-shemesh, then he hath done us this great evil; but if not, then we shall know that it is not his hand that smote us: it was a chance that happened to us.
and he saith to me, Lo, thou art pregnant, and bearing a son, and now do not drink wine and strong drink, and do not eat any unclean thing, for a Nazirite to God is the youth from the womb till the day of his death.'
Moreover he sprinkled with blood both the tabernacle, and all the vessels of the ministry.
Moreover, the Glory of Israel will not break faith and will not regret, for he is not a human that he should regret."
And they gathered together to Masphath: and they drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah, and they fasted on that day, and they said there: We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel judged the children of Israel in Masphath.
And her husband followed her, desiring to be reconciled with her, and to speak kindly to her, and to bring her back with him, having with him a servant and two asses: and she received him, and brought him into her father's house. And when his father-in-law had heard this, and had seen him, he met him with joy,
And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the wayfaring man in the open place of the city; and the old man said, Whither goest thou? and whence comest thou?
Rather choosing to be afflicted with the people of God, than to have the pleasure of sin for a time,
Then he said to her, "What is his appearance?" She said, "An old man is coming up, and he is wrapped in a robe." Then Saul realized that it was Samuel, and he knelt with his face to the ground and bowed down.
And they gave him threescore and ten pieces of silver out of the house of Baalberith, wherewith Abimelech hired vain and light persons, who followed him.
And the men of Israel have seen that they are distressed, that the people hath been oppressed, and the people hide themselves in caves, and in the thickets, and in rocks, and in high places, and in pits.
(Nor were the children of Benjamin ignorant that the children of Israel were come up to Maspha.) And the Levite the husband of the woman that was killed, being asked, how so great a wickedness had been committed,
Behold, this day thine eyes have seen how that Jehovah had given thee this day into my hand in the cave; and they bade me kill thee; but [mine eye] spared thee; and I said, I will not put forth my hand against my lord, for he is the anointed of Jehovah.
And returning from the battle before the sun rising,
Because it was right for him, for whom and through whom all things have being, in guiding his sons to glory, to make the captain of their salvation complete through pain.
Now the Philistines assembled all their forces at Aphek, and Israel was encamped at the spring that is in Jezreel.
and Jesse made seven of his sons pass before Samuel. And Samuel said to Jesse, even Jehovah, hast not chosen these.
And David said to Achish, But what have I done? and what hast thou found in thy servant so long as I have been with thee to this day, that I should not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?
And now, my lord, even Jehovah, liveth, and thy soul liveth, seeing even Jehovah, hast restrained thee from coming with bloodshed, and from avenging thyself with thine own hand, now let thine enemies, and they that seek evil to my lord, be as Nabal.
Let us fear therefore, lest by any means anyone of you should seem to have come short of a promise of entering into his rest.
whereby he is able also to save for ever them that come to God through him; always living to make intercession for us.
Also before they make perfume with the fat -- then hath the priest's servant come in, and said to the man who is sacrificing, `Give flesh to roast for the priest, and he doth not take of thee flesh is troubled, but raw;'
Then Elkanah went to Ramah to his house. And the child became the servant of Jehovah under With Eli the priest.
And Manasseh did not take away the land of the people of Beth-shean and itself daughter-towns, or of Taanach and itself daughter-towns, or of the people of Dor and itself daughter-towns, or of the people of Ibleam and itself daughter-towns, or of the people of Megiddo and itself daughter-towns, driving them out: but the Canaanites would go on living in that land.
(Formerly in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, he would say: "Come, let us go up to the seer." For the prophet of to-day was formerly called a seer.)
He will guard the feet of his faithful ones, But the wicked will be destroyed in the darkness, because a man will not prevail by his might.
Then Saul said to his servants that stood by him, Hear now, ye Benjaminites: will the son of Jesse give every one of you also fields and vineyards? Will he make you all captains of thousands and captains of hundreds,
Filled with the fruit of righteousness, through Jesus Christ, unto the glory and praise of God.
In burnt-offerings and sacrifices for sin thou hast had no pleasure.
So that all which fell that day of Benjamin were twenty and five thousand men that drew the sword; all these were men of valor.
Forty years: for which cause I was offended with this generation, and I said: They always err in heart. And they have not known my ways,
But God split the hollow place that is in Lehi, and water came out of it. When he had drunk, his spirit returned, and he revived. Therefore itself name was called En Hakkore, which is in Lehi, unto this day.
And when the Philistine looked about and saw David, he disdained him; for he was a youth, and ruddy, and besides of a beautiful countenance.
And Saul said to Jonathan: Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan told him, and said: I did but taste a little honey with the end of the rod, which was in my hand, and behold, I must die.
and there is no deliverer, for it far off from Sidon, and they have no word with man, and it in the valley which by Beth-Rehob; and they build the city, and dwell in it,
And they called the name of that place Bochim: and they sacrificed there unto Jehovah.
lo, ye all sons of Israel; give for you a word and counsel here.'
Neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood he entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us.
And David arose, and fled that day from before Saul, and went to Achish the king of Gath.
lest any one be a fornicator, or a profane person, as Esau, who in exchange for one morsel of food did sell his birthright,
and changeth his behaviour before their eyes, and feigneth himself mad in their hand, and scribbleth on the doors of the gate, and letteth down his spittle unto his beard.
And there was a man in Maon, whose possessions were in Carmel; and the man was very great, and he had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats: and he was shearing his sheep in Carmel.
And had taken the women captives, that were therein: they slew not any, either great or small, but carried them away, and went on their way.
And he learned of even Jehovah, for him, and gave him victuals, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine.
And David heard in the wilderness that Nabal did shear his sheep.
For ye came not near to the mount touched and scorched with fire, and to blackness, and darkness, and tempest,
And Dalila said to him: How dost thou say thou lovest me, when thy soul is not with me? Thou hast told me lies these three times, and wouldst not tell me wherein thy great strength lieth.
But it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of Nabal, and his wife had told him these things, that his heart died within him, and he became as a stone.
And Jonathan answered Saul his father, and said unto him, Wherefore shall he be slain? what hath he done?
And they called to the descendants of Dan, who turned around to face them, and they said to Micah, "What is the matter with you that you assembled together?"
And the five men that went to spy out the land went up, and came in thither, and took the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image; and the priest stood in the entrance of the gate with the six hundred men that were appointed with weapons of war.
The descendants of Hobab the Kenite, Moses' father-in-law, went up with the descendants of Judah from the city of palms into the wilderness of Judah, which is in the Negev near Arad. And they went and settled with the people.
And when they saw him, they took thirty companions, and they were with him.
And Saul said, Hear now, son of Ahitub. And he answered, Here I am, my lord.
And Saul fell straightway his full length on the earth, and was sore afraid because of the words of Samuel: and there was no strength in him, for he had eaten no bread all the day nor all the night.
The priest said to them, "Go in peace. Your way in which you go is before Yahweh."
by so much more Jesus hast become the guarantee of a better covenant.
And David spoke to the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done to the man that smites this Philistine, and takes away the reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the armies of the living God?
who is the radiance of his glory and the representation of his essence, sustaining all things by the word of power. When he had made purification for sins through him, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high,
Saul said, "You are blessed by Yahweh; for you have had compassion on me.
Choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God, than to enjoy pleasures of sin for a season;
Now Eli was ninety-eight years old. His eyes were set, so that he could not see.
and as it is laid up to men once to die, and after this -- justice,
And he said to them: What you shall see me do, do you the same: I will go into one part of the camp, and do you as I shall do.
And the priest answered David, and said, There is no common bread under my hand, but there is hallowed bread; if the young men have kept themselves at least from women.
He acted bravely and defeated the Amalekite and rescued Israel from the hand of those who plundered it.
Jesse made seven of his sons to pass before Samuel. Samuel said to Jesse, "Yahweh hast not chosen these."
Samuel said to Jesse, "Are all your children here?" He said, "There remains yet the youngest. Behold, he is keeping the sheep." Samuel said to Jesse, "Send and get him, for we will not sit down until he comes here."
And Jehovah said unto Gideon, The people are yet too many; bring them down unto the water, and I will try them for thee there: and it shall be, that of whom I say unto thee, This shall go with thee, the same shall go with thee; and of whomsoever I say unto thee, This shall not go with thee, the same shall not go.
So then, this is what we will do to Gibeah: we will go up against her by lot.
And Jehovah looked upon him, and said, Go in this thy might, and thou shalt save Israel from the hand of the Midianites: have not I sent thee?
and to those in Rachal, and to those in the cities of the Jerahmeelites, and to those in the cities of the Kenite,
And she said, Oh, my lord, thy soul liveth, my lord, I am the woman that stood by thee here to pray to Jehovah.
He said to her, "If they only bind me with new ropes with which no work hast been done, then shall I become weak, and be as another man."
And Saul's daughter Michal was in love with David: and Saul had word of it and was pleased.
As to the asses which are lost to thee this day three days, set not thy heart to them, for they have been found; and to whom all the desire of Israel?' is it not to thee and to all thy father's house?'
And the sons of Israel ask of Jehovah, -- and there the ark of the covenant of God in those days,
They were near Jebus, and the day was far spent; and the servant said to his master, Come, I pray thee, and let us turn aside into this city of the Jebusite, and lodge in it.
and Micah saith, `Now I have known that Jehovah doth good to me, for the Levite hath been to me for a priest.'
When he returned the pieces of silver to his mother, his mother took two hundred pieces of silver, and she gave it to the smith, and he made it into an idol of cast metal; and it was in the house of Micah.
For unto us was the gospel preached, as well as unto them: but the word preached did not profit them, not being mixed with faith in them that heard it.
And the Bene-Ammon are called together, and encamp in Gilead, and the sons of Israel are gathered together, and encamp in Mizpah.
who doesn't need, like those high priests, to offer up sacrifices daily, first for his own sins, and then for the sins of the people. For he did this once for all, when he offered up himself.
And Heber Kain was separated from the other Kenite, that is, from the descendants of Hobab the father-in-law of Moses. And he was encamped in Elon-bezaanannim, which is near Kedesh.
And they send and gather all the princes of the Philistines unto them, and say, `What do we do to the ark of the God of Israel?' and they say, `To Gath let the ark of the God of Israel be brought round;' and they bring round the ark of the God of Israel:
And the vine said to them, Should I leave my new wine, which cheers God and man, and go to wave over the trees?
Therefore arise in the morning, thou, and the servants of thy lord, who came with thee: and when you are up before day, and it shall begin to be light, go on your way.
It will happen, that everyone who is left in your house will come and bow down to him for a piece of silver and a loaf of bread, and will say, "Please put me into one of the priests' offices, that I may eat a morsel of bread."'"
So they turned to that direction, and they came to the house of the young Levite, the house of Micah, and they greeted him.
having the same conflict which ye saw in me, and now hear to be in me.
But he, whose pedigree is not numbered among them, received tithes of Abraham, and blessed him that had the promises.
David was the youngest; and the three oldest followed Saul.
They sent therefore and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines, and they said, "Send the ark of the God of Israel away, and let it go again to itself place, that it not kill us and our people." For there was a deadly confusion throughout all the city. The hand of God was very heavy there.
He divided the three hundred men into three bands, and he put trumpets and empty jars in everyone's hand, with torches inside the jars.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Manoah, Of all that I said unto the woman let her beware.
and he calleth hastily unto the young man bearing his weapons, and saith to him, `Draw thy sword, and thou hast put me to death, lest they say of me -- A woman slew him;' and his young man pierced him through, and he dieth.
and it cometh to pass at the end of two months that she turneth back unto her father, and he doth to her his vow which he voweth, and she knew not a man; and it is a statute in Israel:
Saul summoned the people, and numbered them in Telaim, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
What are we to do about wives for those who are still living? For we have taken an oath by Jehovah that we will not give them our daughters for wives.
Gideon said to him, "Oh, my lord, if Yahweh is with us, why then hast all this happened to us? Where are all his wondrous works which our fathers told us of, saying, 'Didn't Yahweh bring us up from Egypt?' But now Yahweh hast cast us off, and delivered us into the hand of Midian."
And Ehud put forth his left hand, and took the dagger from his right thigh, and thrust it into his belly:
And Saul said to David, Behold, my elder daughter Merab, her will I give thee to wife: only be thou valiant for me, and fight the Lord's battles. For Saul said, Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him.
So the children of Israel dwelt in the midst of the Chanaanite, and the Hethite, and the Amorrhite, and the Pherezite, and the Hevite, and the Jebusite:
And it was so: for he rose up early on the morrow, and thrust the fleece together, and wringed the dew out of the fleece, a bowl full of water.
Then Achish called David, and said to him, "As Yahweh lives, you have been upright, and your going out and your coming in with me in the army is good in my sight; for I have not found evil in you since the day of your coming to me to this day. Nevertheless, the lords don't favor you.
And Hannah answered and said, No, my lord, I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit: I have drunk no wine nor strong drink, but have poured out my soul before Jehovah.
After this, he was in great need of water, and crying out to Jehovah, he said, You have given this great salvation by the hand of your servant, and now need of water will be my death; and I will be given into the hands of this people who are without circumcision.
And that were in Arama, and that were in the lake Asan, and that were in Athach,
And when the lad was come to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot, Jonathan cried after the lad, and said, Is not the arrow beyond thee?
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; now Ehud was dead.
So I have given him to Jehovah; for all his life he is the Lord's. Then he gave Jehovah worship there.
And Barak hath pursued after the chariots and after the camp, unto Harosheth of the Goyim, and all the camp of Sisera falleth by the mouth of the sword -- there hath not been left even one.
After the death of Josue the children of Israel consulted Jehovah, speaking: Who shall go up before us against the Chanaanite, and shall be the leader of the war?
For the rest, my brothers, whatever things are true, whatever things have honor, whatever things are upright, whatever things are holy, whatever things are beautiful, whatever things are of value, if there is any your virtue and if there is any praise, give thought to these things.
And he arose early in the morning on the fifth day to depart; but the damsel's father said, Refresh thy heart, I pray thee. And they lingered until the afternoon, and they did eat both of them.
She vowed a vow, and said, "Yahweh of Armies, if you will indeed look at the affliction of your servant, and remember me, and not forget your servant, but will give to your servant a boy, then I will give him to Yahweh all the days of his life and no razor shall come on his head."
Become fellow imitators of me, brothers, and observe those who walk in this way, just as you have us as an example.
And Jehovah smote Benjamin before Israel; and the children of Israel destroyed of the Benjaminites that day twenty-five thousand one hundred men; all these drew the sword.
And then the next day, the Philistines came to strip the dead and they found Saul and his three sons lying dead on Mount Gilboa.
And they went up into the city. As they were coming into the midst of the city, behold, Samuel was coming out towards them, to go up to the high place.
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon, so that I also may be encourageth when I know your circumstances.
And Jonathan saith, `My father hath troubled the land; see, I pray you, that mine eyes have become bright because I tasted a little of this honey.
And they ran and fetched him thence; and when he stood among the people, he was higher than any of the people from his shoulders and upward.
Jonathan answered Saul his father, and said to him, "Why should he be put to death? What hast he done?"
And Saul sent the messengers again to see David, saying, Bring him up to me in the bed, that I may slay him.
In due time, Hannah conceived and gave birth to a son. She called his name Samuel, for she said, "I requested him from Yahweh."
This he put into the pot, and everything that came up on the hook the priest took for himself. This they did in Shiloh to all Israel who came there.
For if Jesus had given them rest, he would never have afterwards spoken of another day.
And, *Thou* in the beginning, Jehovah, hast founded the earth, and works of thy hands are the heavens.
So she wept before Samson and complain, speaking: Thou hatest me, and dost not love me: therefore thou wilt not expound to me the riddle which thou hast proposed to the sons of my people. But he answered: I would not tell it to my father and mother, and how can I tell it to thee?
And David said: As Jehovah liveth, unless Jehovah shall strike him, or his day shall come to die, or he shall go down to battle and perish;
By faith also Sarah herself, being barren, received strength to conceive seed, even past the time of age; because she believed that he was faithful who had promised,
That you may be blameless, and spiritual children of God, without reproof, in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, among whom you shine as lights in the world.
to-morrow about this time I will send you a man from the land of Benjamin, and on him you are to put the holy oil, making him over my people Israel, and he will make my people safe from the hands of the Philistines: for I have seen the sorrow of my people, whose cry hast come up to me.
Here you all are, you children of Israel; give now your suggestions about what is to be done.
So may all your enemies perish, O Yahweh, but those who love him are like the rising sun at itself brightest." And the land had rest for forty years.
And the men of Israel besides Benjamin were counted four hundred thousand sword-wielding men; all were warriors.
And the day cometh, and Elkanah sacrificeth and he hath given to Peninnah his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters; portions,
Gilead was living over the Jordan; and Dan was waiting in his ships; Asher kept in his place by the sea's edge, living by his inlets.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and plunder them until the morning light, and let us not leave a man of them. And they said, Do whatsoever is good in thy sight. Then said the priest, Let us come near hither to God.
And a man of God came to Eli and said to him, Jehovah says, Did I let myself be seen by your father's people when they were in Egypt, servants in Pharaoh's house?
and they place the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the coffer, and the golden mice, and the images of their emerods.
And Samuel saith unto Saul, `I do not turn back with thee; for thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah doth reject thee from being king over Israel.'
And the three eldest sons of Jesse went and followed Saul to the battle; and the names of his three sons that went to the battle were Eliab the first-born, and next unto him Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
Then Gideon built an altar there unto Jehovah, and called it Jehovahshalom: unto this day it is yet in Ophrah of the Abiezrites.
And David went up from thence, and abode in the strongholds of En-gedi.
And the descendants of Dan went their way. When Micah saw that they were stronger than him, he turned to return to his house.
And Gad the prophet said to David: Abide not in the stronghold, depart, and go into the land of Juda. And David departed, and came into the forest of Haret.
And Saul sendeth the messengers to see David, saying, `Bring him up in the bed unto me,' -- to put him to death.
And this is what you are to do: every male, and every woman who hast had sex relations with a man, you are to put to the curse, but you are to keep safe the virgins. And they did so.
And Michal Saul's daughter loved David; and they told Saul, and the thing was right in his sight.
He raiseth up the poor out of the dust; from the dung-hill he lifteth up the needy, To set among nobles; and he maketh them inherit a throne of glory; For the pillars of the earth are Jehovah's, and he hath set the world upon them.
And the elders of the assembly said, What shall we do for wives for them that remain? for the women have been destroyed out of Benjamin.
Then Elkanah went to Ramah, to his house. Now the boy was serving Yahweh in the presence of Eli the priest.
All the people came into the forest; and there was honey on the ground.
They waited until they were put to shame; and behold, he didn't open the doors of the upper place. Therefore they took the key and opened them, and behold, their lord had fallen down dead on the threshing-floor.
He took Agag, king of the Amalekites, prisoner, and put all the people to the sword without mercy.
And Michal the daughter of Saul loveth David, and they declare to Saul, and the thing is right in his eyes,
But now, your authority will not go upon: Jehovah, Searching for a man who is pleasing to him in every way, hast given him the place of ruler over his people, because you have not done what Jehovah gave you orders to do.
And David learned of Yahweh, saying, "Should I pursue after this band of raiders? Will I overtake them?" He said to him, "Pursue them, for you will certainly overtake them, and you will certainly Rescue them."
And thou shalt build an altar to Jehovah thy God in the top of this rock, whereupon thou didst lay the sacrifice before: and thou shalt take the second bullock, and shalt offer a holocaust upon a pile of the wood, which thou shalt cut down out of the Asherah.
Now the Philistines bought all their army together at Aphek: and the Israelites put their forces in position by the fountain in Jezreel.
without father, without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but resembling the Son of Godhe remains a priest for all time.
The Philistines gathered their camps for battle and they were gathered at Socoh which belongs to Judah. They encamped between Socoh and Azekah in Ephes Dammim.
He will take your fields and your vine-gardens and your olive-gardens, all the best of them, and give them to his servants.
And they got up and went up to Beth-el to get directions from God, and the children of Israel said, Who is to be the first to go up to fight against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah is to go up first.
Then it will be that the rest of your family, anyone who hast not been cut off, will go down on his knees to him for a bit of silver or a bit of bread, and say, Be pleased to put me into one of the priest's places so that I may have a little food.
Then Saul immediately fell prostrate to the ground, and he was very afraid because of the words of Samuel: there was no more strength in him, for he had not eaten food all day and all night.
He said to her, "Get up, and let us be going!" but no one answered. Then he took her up on the donkey; and the man rose up, and went to his place.
Remember them that have the rule over you, who have spoken unto you the word of God: whose faith follow, considering the end of their in the way.
Wherefore kick ye at my sacrifice and at my thereof, which I have commanded in my birth; and honourest thy sons above me, to make yourselves fat with the chiefest of all the offerings of Israel my people?
And when the second day after the new moon was come, David's place appeared empty again. And Saul said to Jonathan his son: Why cometh not the son of Isai to food neither yesterday nor to-day?
So David took the spear and the jar of water from Saul's head; and they went away: and no man saw it, or knew it, nor did any awake, for they were all asleep; because a deep sleep from Yahweh was fallen upon them.
that Jehovah sent a prophet to the children of Israel, who said to them, Thus saith even Jehovah, the God of Israel: I brought you up from Egypt, and brought you forth out of the house of bondage;
And he said to me, Behold, thou shalt conceive and bear a son; and now drink not wine nor strong drink, and eat not anything unclean; for the boy shall be a Nazirite of God from the womb to the day of his death.
Then Saul said, I have done wrong; come back to me, David my son: I will do you no more wrong, because my life was dear to you to-day truly, I have been foolish and my error is very great.
The men of Israel turned, and the men of Benjamin were dismayed, for they saw that disaster had come on them.
Then Achish said to his servants, Look! the man is clearly off his head; why have you let him come before me?
And Jair died, and was buried in Camon.
Yahweh appeared again in Shiloh; for Yahweh revealed himself to Samuel in Shiloh by Yahweh's word.
From the day the ark stayed in Kiriath Jearim, days multiplied and became twenty years while all the house of Israel mourned after Yahweh.
We may fear, then, lest a promise being left of entering into His rest, any one of you may seem to have come short,
And when they had come down from the high place into the village, where a bed was made ready for Saul, he went to rest.
And Benjamin went forth against them out of Gibeah the second day, and destroyed down to the ground of the children of Israel again eighteen thousand men; all these drew the sword.
Now go and smite Amalek, and utterly destroy all that they have, and spare them not; but slay both man and woman, infant and suckling, ox and sheep, camel and ass.
For they indeed, for a few days, punished us as seemed good to them; but he for our profit, that we may be partakers of his sanctification.
And Jephthah sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What hast thou to do with me, that thou art come against me to fight against my land?
Then Saul said, "This is what you must say to David: 'The king desires no bride price except for a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to avenge himself on the enemies of king.'" (Now Saul had planned to know David to fall by the hand of the Philistines.)
The Holy Spirit signifying this, that the way into the holies was not yet made manifest, Whilst the former tabernacle was yet stay thereof.
And rejoicing in their feasts, when they had now taken their good cheer, they commanded that Samson should be called, and should play before them. And being brought out of prison he played before them, and they made him stand between two pillars.
Finally, my brothers, rejoice in Jehovah. To write the same things to you, to me indeed is not tiresome, but for you it is safe.
And Samuel is ministering the presence of Jehovah, a youth girt an ephod of linen;
and I said to you, I am Jehovah your God; fear not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell. but ye have not hearkened to my voice.
who hast become a priest not according to a law of physical requirement, but according to the power of an indestructible life.
Then God made a crack in the hollow rock in Lehi and water came out of it; and after drinking, his spirit came back to him and he was strong again; so that place was named En-hakkore; it is in Lehi unto this day.
Him therefore I hope to send unto you immediately, so soon as I shall see how it will go with me.
And Yahweh said to Gideon, "There are still too many troops; bring them down to the water, and I will sift through them for you there. For whomever I say to you, 'This one will go with you,' he will go with you; and for all whom I say to you, 'This one will not go with you,' he will not go."
After him Ibzan from Beth-lehem judged Israel.
regarding not each his own , but each those of others also.
And laying hold on both the pillars on which the house rested, and holding the one with his right hand, and the other with his left,
whatever comes out from the doors of my house to meet me when I return securely from the Ammonites will be Yahweh's, and I will offer it as a burnt offering."
Not that I have already obtained, or am already made perfect: but I winepress on, if it is so that I may take hold of that for which also I was taken hold of by Christ Jesus.
We have an altar of which they have no right to eat who serve the Tent;
And David saith unto Abiathar the priest, son of Ahimelech, `Bring nigh, I pray thee, to me the ephod;' and Abiathar bringeth nigh the ephod unto David,
And Saul answereth and saith, `Am not I a Benjamite now -- of the smallest of the tribes of Israel? and my family the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? and why hast thou spoken unto me according to this word?'
Then Saul gave David his clothing of war, and put a head-dress of brass on his head and had him clothed with a coat of metal.
Then Saul said to his uncle, "He told us for certain that the female donkeys had been found." But he did not tell him about the matter of the kingship of which Samuel had spoken.
But my righteous man liveth by faith; but if he withdraw himself, he shall not please my soul.
For know ye that afterwards, when he desired to inherit the benediction, he was rejected; for he found no place of repentance, although with tears he had sought it.
And he went on waiting there for seven days, the time fixed by Samuel: but Samuel did not come to Gilgal, and the people were starting to go away from him.
We have an altar, whereof they have no right to eat which serve the tabernacle.
And Saul said, Thus shall ye say to David: The king does not desire any dowry, but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be avenged of the king's enemies. But Saul thought to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines.
The old man said, "Peace be to you; how ever let me supply all your needs. Righteous don't sleep in the street."
For we know him that said, To me vengeance; *I* will recompense, saith Jehovah; and again, Jehovah will judge his people.
They found Adoni-Bezek in Bezek, and they fought against him. They struck the Canaanites and the Perizzites.
and ye have made images of your emerods, and images of your mice that are to corrupt the land, and have given honor to the God of Israel: it may be He doth lighten His hand from off you, and from off your gods, and from off your land;
After him was Samgar the son of Anath, who slew of the Philistines six hundred men with a ploughshare: and he also defended Israel.
And said to him, See now, you are old, and your sons do not go in your ways: give us a king now to be our judge, so that we may be like the other nations.
And she said, I will by all means go with thee, only that it will not be to thine honor upon the way which thou goest, for Jehovah will sell Sisera into the hand of a woman. And Deborah arose, and went with Barak to Kedesh.
Then all the children of Israel, and all the people, went up and came to Beth-el, and wept, and abode there before Jehovah, and fasted that day until even, and offered up burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
Then Samuel said to Saul, I am seer; go up before me to the high place and take food with me today: and in the morning I will let you go, after opening to you all the secrets of your heart.
He raiseth the needy from the dust, And lifteth up the poor from the dunghill; that he may sit with princes, and hold the throne of glory. For the poles of the earth are the Lord's, and upon them he hath set the world.
The weight of the ornamental rings of gold that he requested was one thousand seven hundred shekels of gold, apart from the crescents, pendants, and purple garments that were on the kings of Midian, and apart from the pendants that were on the necks of their camels.
because of your fellowship with the gospel, from the first day until now;
And having a great high priest, who hast made his way through the heavens, even Jesus the Son of God, let us be strong in our faith.
When they arose early on the following morning, behold, Dagon had fallen on his face to the ground before Yahweh's ark; and the head of Dagon and both the palms of his hands were cut off on the threshold. Only Dagon's torso was intact.
And the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten.And the men of Israel gave place to Benjamin, because they trusted to the ambush that they had set against Gibeah.
The mountains quaked before the face of Jehovah, that Sinai, from before even Jehovah, the God of Israel.
because he was longing for all of you and was distressed because you had heard that he was sick.
And he took thirty friends, and they were with him.
And Gideon the son of Joash died in a good old age, and was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in Ophrah of the Abi-ezrites.
And Jonathan smote the outpost of the Philistines that was in Geba, and the Philistines heard [of it]. And Saul blew the trumpet throughout the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
And Delilah said unto Samson, Hitherto thou hast mocked me, and told me lies; tell me wherewith thou mightest be bound. And he said unto her, If thou weavest the seven locks of my head with the web.
Yea, I ask also you, true yokefellow, help them, who struggled along with me in the gospel with both Clement and the rest of my fellow workers whose names are in the book of life.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, Ishvi, and Malchishua; and the names of his two daughters were men: the name of the first-born Merab, and the name of the younger Michal.
For ground which drinks the rain which comes often upon it, and produces useful herbs for those for whose sakes also it is tilled, partakes of blessing from God;
without father, without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but likened unto the Son of God, continueth a priest for ever.
But Zebee and Salmana were resting with all their army. For fifteen thousand men were left of all the troops of the eastern people, and one hundred and twenty thousand warriors that drew the sword, were slain.
And she said to him, "How can you say, 'I love you,' when your heart is not with me? You have mocked me these three times, and you have not told me how your strength is so great."
and I will draw unto thee, to the torrent Kishon, Sisera, the captain of Jabin's army, and his chariots and his multitude, and I will give him into thy hand.
And it is declared to Saul that David hath come in to Keilah, and Saul saith, `God hath made him known for my hand, for he hath been shut in, to enter into a city of doors and bar.'
And the time that David abode in the country of the Philistines was a year and four months.
And Samuel groweth up, and Jehovah hath been with him, and hath not let fall any of his words to the earth;
His father and mother did not know that this was from Yahweh; he was seeking for an occasion against the Philistines. Now at that time the Philistines were ruleth in Israel.
And the angel of Jehovah said to Manoah, Though thou shouldest detain me, I will not eat of thy bread; and if thou wilt offer a burnt-offering, thou shalt offer it up to Jehovah. For Manoah knew not that he was the angel of Jehovah.
After whom dost thou pursue? After a dead dog, after a flea.
And when Abigail saw David, she quickly got off her ass, falling down on her face before him.
And David checked his men with these words, and suffered them not to rise against Saul. And Saul rose up out of the cave, and went on way.
For he, of whom these things are said, belongs to a different tribe, of which no one hast been attached to the service of the altar.
And the children of Benjamin said, They are smitten down before us, as at the first. But the children of Israel said, Let us flee, and draw them from the city unto the highways.
And David said to Abner, Art thou not a man? and who is like to thee in Israel? and why hast thou not guarded thy lord the king? for one of the people came in to destroy the king thy lord.
Then David said, "Will the men of Keilah deliver me and my men into the hand of Saul?" Yahweh said, "They will deliver you up."
And Manoah saith unto the messenger of Jehovah, `What thy name? when thy words come to pass, then we have honored thee.'
Went out by a postern door. And the king's servants going in, saw the doors of the parlour shut, and they said: Perhaps he is easing nature in his summer parlour.
And although they all were approved through their faith, they did not receive what was promised,
And the people answered him the same words speaking: These things shall be given to the man that shall slay him.
And make straight steps with your feet: that no one, halting, may go out of the way; but rather be healed.
See therefore, and take knowledge of all the lurking-places where he hides himself, and come again to me with certainty, and I will go with you. It shall happen, if he is in the land, that I will search him out among all the thousands of Judah."
And Nabal answered David's servants, and said, Who is David? and who is the son of Jesse? there be many servants now a days that break away every man from his master.
And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and they slew the Canaanites that inhabited Zephath, and utterly destroyed it. And the name of the city was called Hormah.
On that day God subdued Jabin king of Canaan before Israelites.
And the men of Israel say, `Have ye seen this man who is coming up? for, to defy Israel he is coming up, and it hath been -- the man who smiteth him, the king doth enrich him with great riches, and his daughter he doth give to him, and his father's house doth make free in Israel.'
where your fathers tempted , by proving , and saw my works forty years.
And David taking the head of the Philistine brought it to Jerusalem: but his armor he put in his tent.
And she said, I will surely go with thee: notwithstanding the journey that thou takest shall not be for thine honor; for Jehovah shall sell Sisera into the hand of a woman. And Deborah arose, and went with Barak to Kedesh.
And David saith to Abigail, `Blessed Jehovah, the God of Israel, who hath sent thee this day to meet me,
And Nahash the Ammonite came up and encamped against Jabesh-Gilead. And all the men of Jabesh said to Nahash, Make a covenant with us, and we will serve thee.
And the responsible men of Gilead said to Jephthah, that is the reason we have come back to you; so go with us and make war against the children of Ammon, and we will make you our head over all the people of Gilead.
And when Saul saw the camp of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart greatly trembled.
David arose and went, he and his men, and killed two hundred men of the Philistines. Then David brought their foreskins, and they gave them in full number to the king, that he might be the king's son-in-law. Then Saul gave him Michal his daughter as wife.
Now when they came, looking at Eliab, he said, Clearly the man of the Lord's selection is before him.
So that you may be holy and gentle, children of God without sin in a twisted and foolish generation, among whom you are seen as lights in the world,
And David goeth up thence, and abideth in fortresses En-gedi.
And they put his armor in the house of Ashtaroth; and they fastened his body to the wall of Beth-shan.
Now all the troops of the Philistines were gathered together to Aphec: and Israel also encamped by the fountain which is in Jezrahel.
Now Heli was ninety and eight years old, and his eyes were dim, and he could not see.
So he sent and brought him. Now he was ruddy with beautiful eyes and of handsome appearance. And Yahweh said, "Arise, anoint him, for this is he."
Manoah said to his wife, "We shall surely die, because we have seen God."
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the citizens of Shechem; and the citizens of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech,
Because of this it behoveth more abundantly to take heed to the things heard, lest we may glide aside,
And Kish the father of Saul, and Ner the father of Abner were sons of Abiel.
And all of this assembly will know that Yahweh does not Rescue with sword or with spear, for the battle belongs to Yahweh, and he will give you into our hands!"
Now in the things which we are saying, the main mark is this. We have such a high priest, who sat down on the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens,
So Jephthah went over to the children of Ammon to make war on them; and Jehovah gave them into his hands.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ with your spirit. Amen.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto your voice in all that ye said unto me, and have made a king over you.
By faith, Noah, being warned about things not yet seen, moved with godly fear, prepared a ship for the saving of his house, through which he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is according to faith.
The base of his spear was like a weaver's beam and the point of his spear weighed six hundred iron shekels. His shield bearer was walking in before him.
And the men of Israel, other than Benjamin, were four hundred thousand in number, all armed with swords; they were all men of war.
They will ask how you are doing and will give you two loaves, which you will take from their hand.
And taking both the oxen, he cut them in pieces, and sent them into all the borders of Israel by messengers, speaking: Whosoever shall not come forth, and follow Saul and Samuel, so shall it be done to his oxen. And the fear of Jehovah fell upon the people, and they went out as one man.
So now, if you have here five cakes of bread, give them into my hand, or whatever you have.
And when thou shalt hear what they are saying, then shall thy hands be strong, and thou shalt go down more rid to the enemies' camp. And he went down with Phara his servant into part of the camp, where was the watch of men in arms.
Marriage must be held in honor by all, and the marriage bed be undefiled, because God will judge sexually immoral people and adulterers.
But Saul said nothing that day, for his thought was, Something hast taken place making him unclean; it is clear that he is not clean.
Rejoice in Jehovah always; again I will say, rejoice;
But David said to Saul, "Who am I, and who are my relatives, the clan of my father in Israel, that I should be a son-in-law to the king?"
without covetousness the orderly, being content with the things present, for He hath said, `No, I will not leave, no, nor forsake thee,'
Now there was a certain man of Ramathaim Zophim, of the hill-country of Ephraim, and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephraimite.
And this will we do, if God permit.
And the man Micah had a house of gods, and made an ephod, and teraphim, and consecrated one of his sons, who became his priest.
Then Jerubbaal, that is, Gideon, and all the people with him, got up early and put up their tents by the side of the water-spring of Harod; the tents of Midian were on the north side of him, under the hill of Moreh in the valley.
And Joash saith to all who have stood against him, `Ye, do ye plead for Baal? ye -- do ye save him? he who pleadeth in him is put to death during the morning; if he a god he himself doth plead against him, because he hath broken down his altar.'
"The trees said to the fig tree, 'Come and reign over us.'
Therefore fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth and with your whole heart, for you have seen the great works which he hath done among you.
And Jehovah said unto him, Surely I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites as one man.
and we came to be, even we, like all the nations; and our king hath judged us, and gone out before us, and fought our battles.'
And his daughter-in-law, Phinehas' wife, was with child, near to be delivered; and when she heard the tidings that the ark of God was taken, and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, she bowed herself and travailed; for her pains came upon her.
Then Ahimelech answered the king, and said, "Who among all your servants is so faithful as David, who is the king's son-in-law, and is taken into your council, and is honorable in your house?
And Elcana went to Ramatha, to his house; but the child ministered in the sight of Jehovah before the face of Heli the priest.
And Samuel saith, `Art not thou, if thou little in thine own eyes, head of the tribes of Israel? and Jehovah doth anoint thee for king over Israel,
whose voice the earth shook then, and now hath he promised, saying, `Yet once -- I shake not only the earth, but also the heaven;'
And the house hath been full of men and women, and thither all the princes of the Philistines, and on the roof about three thousand men and women, who are looking on the playing of Samson.
Israel was very poor because of the presence of Midian, and Israel cried out to Yahweh.
For we have not a high priest who is not able to be touched by the feelings of our feeble flesh; but we have one who hast been tested in all points as we ourselves are tested, but without sin.
Be glad in Jehovah at all times: again I say, Be glad.
See, the days are coming when your arm and the arm of your father's people will be cut off;
Of whom the world was not worthy; wandering in deserts, in mountains, and in dens, and in holes of the earth.
And her adversary also provoked her sore, to make her fret, because Jehovah had shut up her womb.
Then Eli called Samuel, and said, Samuel, my son. And he answered, Here am I.
But he said to me, 'Behold, you shall conceive, and bear a son; and now drink no wine nor strong drink, and don't eat any unclean thing; for the child shall be a Nazirite to God from the womb to the day of his death.'"
Therefore David ran, and stood upon the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew it out of the sheath thereof, and slew him, and cut off his head therewith. And when the Philistines saw their champion was dead, they fled.
Follow peace with all men, and holiness. without which no man shall see God.
David's men said to him, "Behold, we are afraid here in Judah. How much more then if we go to Keilah against the armies of the Philistines?"
Now there was no smith to be found in all the land of Israel, for the Philistines had taken this precaution, lest the Hebrews should make them swords or spears.
And Jephthah sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon, saying, "What is between you and me that you have come to me to make war against my land?"
But the other of love, knowing that I am set for the defence of the gospel.
And he was sore athirst, and called on Jehovah, and said, Thou hast given this great deliverance into the hand of thy servant: and now shall I die for thirst, and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised?
not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the custom with some; but encouraging [one another], and by so much the more as ye see the day drawing near.
And his sons did not go in his ways, but moved by the love of money took rewards, and were not upright in judging.
And a high priest over the house of God:
having thirty sons that rode on thirty ass colts, and were princes of thirty cities, which from his name were called Havoth Jair, that is, the towns of Jair, until this present day in the land of Galaad.
So they cut down boughs from the trees, every man as fast as he could, and followed their leader. And surrounding the fortresses they set it on fire; and so it came to pass that with the smoke and with the fire a thousand persons were killed, men and women together, of the inhabitants of the tower of Sichem.
Manoah said to Yahweh's angel, "Please stay with us, that we may make a young goat ready for you."
And it was told Saul that David was fled to Gath; and he sought no more again for him.
Nevertheless, whereto we have already attained, let us walk by the same rule, let us mind the same thing.
that the violence done to the seventy sons of Jerubbaal might come, and that their blood might be laid on Abimelech their brother, who killed them, and on the men of Shechem, who strengthened his hands to kill his brothers.
Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering (for he is faithful that hath promised),
And Achis believed David, speaking: He hath done much harm to his people Israel: therefore he shall be my servant for ever.
And David ran, and stood upon the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew it out of itself sheath, and killed him completely, and cut off his head with it. And when the Philistines saw that their hero was dead, they fled.
And when you shall see the daughters of Silo come out, as the custom is, to dance, come ye on a sudden out of the vineyards, and catch you every man his wife among them, and go into the land of Benjamin.
And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest what Saul hath done, how he hath cut off those that have familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land: wherefore then layest thou a snare for my life, to cause me to die?
`After whom hath the king of Israel come out? after whom art thou pursuing? -- after a dead dog! after one flea!
Then Saul sent messengers to Jesse and said, Send me David thy son, who is with the sheep.
For in fact he was ill almost to death: but God had mercy on him; and not only on him but on me, so that I might not have grief on grief.
And it came to pass, when the morrow was come that Saul put the people in three companies: and he came into the midst of the camp in the morning watch, and he slew the Ammonites until the day grew hot, and the rest were scattered, so that two of them were not left together.
Is not this David, of whom they sang one to another in dances, saying, Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
So Midian was subdued before the children of Israel, and they lifted up their heads no more. The land had rest forty years in the days of Gideon.
And he said to him, Ah Lord, wherewith shall I save Israel? behold, my thousand is the poorest in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
And he ceaseth from prophesying, and cometh in to the high place,
For we are the circumcision, who worship God in the Spirit, and rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh;
Remember the prisoners, as though you were fellow-prisoners; remember the mistreated, as though you yourselves also are being mistreated in the body.
And Jehovah struck a terror into Sisara, and all his chariots, and all his multitude, with the edge of the sword, at the sight of Barac, insomuch that Sisara leaping down from off his chariot, fled away on foot.
And Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren. And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David from that day forward. And Samuel rose up, and went to Ramah.
even Jehovah, judge between me and thee, and even Jehovah, avenge me of thee; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
for they were not bearing that which is commanded, `And if a beast may touch the mountain, it shall be stoned, or with an arrow shot through,'
Then Gad the prophet said to David, "You should not stay in the stronghold; leave and go into the land of Judah." So David left and came to the forest of Hereth.
And when he had lifted up his eyes, he saw a wayfaring man in the street of the city: and the old man said, Whither goest thou? and whence comest thou?
Elkanah her husband said to her, "Do what seems good to you. Wait until you have weaned him; only may Yahweh establish his word." So the woman waited and nursed her son, until she weaned him.
Then Saul said to Michal, Why hast thou deceived me so, and sent away mine enemy, that he is escaped? And Michal said to Saul, He said to me, Let me go; why should I slay thee?
that the violence to the seventy sons of Jerubbaal might come, and their blood be laid upon Abimelech their brother, who slew them, and upon the citizens of Shechem, who had strengthened his hands to slay his brethren.
And Gaal goeth out before the masters of Shechem, and fighteth against Abimelech,
and see, and behold, if the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in the dances, then come out of the vineyards, and catch you every man his wife of the daughters of Shiloh, and go to the land of Benjamin.
By faith Noah, being moved by the fear of God, made ready an ark for the salvation of his family, because God had given him news of things which were not seen at the time; and through it the world was judged by him, and he bought for his heritage the righteousness which is by faith.
And Gaal went out before the men of Shechem, and fought with Abimelech.
They are going down in the extremity of the city, and Samuel hath said unto Saul, `Say to the young man that he pass on before us (and he passeth on), and thou, stand at this time, and I cause thee to hear the word of God.'
He restored the eleven hundred pieces of silver to his mother, then his mother said, "I most certainly dedicate the silver to Yahweh from my hand for my son, to make an engraved image and a molten image. Now therefore I will restore it to you."
And Gaal son of Ebed cometh -- also his brethren -- and they pass over into Shechem, and the masters of Shechem trust in him,
And Abimelech and the detachments who with him have push on, and stand at the opening of the gate of the city, and the two detachments have push against all who are in the field, and smite them,
And Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, was in his place before it,) and said, Am I still to go on with the fight against the children of Benjamin my brother, or am I to give it up? And Jehovah said, Go on; for tomorrow I will give him into your hands.
And they took their daughters as wives for themselves, and they gave their daughters to their sons, and they served their gods.
and David cried to the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, "Don't you answer, Abner?" Then Abner answered, "Who are you who cries to the king?"
And the thornbush said to the trees, 'If in good faith you are anointing me as king over you, then come and take refuge in my shade; if not, may fire go out from the thornbush and devour the cedars of Lebanon.'
Israel sent messengers to Sihon king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon; and Israel said to him, 'Please let us pass through your land to my place.'
And he said unto them, Follow after me: for Jehovah hath delivered your enemies the Moabites into your hand. And they went down after him, and took the fords of the Jordan toward Moab, and suffered not a man to pass over.
And David prevailed over the Philistine, with a sling and a stone, and he struck, and slew the Philistine. And as David had no sword in his hand,
Then Saul came up to the city of Amalek and set an ambush in the wadi.
And again the Israelites did evil in the sight of Yahweh, and Ehud died.
Then went Samson to Gaza, and saw there a harlot, and went in unto her.
And also the Hope of Israel will not lie nor repent; for he is not a man, that he should repent.
Because thou didst not obey the voice of Jehovah, neither didst thou execute the wrath of his indignation upon Amalec. Therefore hath Jehovah done to thee what thou sufferest this day.
So I took her, cutting her into parts which I sent through all the country of the heritage of Israel; for they have done an act of shame in Israel.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan and Ishvi and Malchi-shua; and these are the names of his daughters: the older was named Merab and the younger Michal;
and if ye are not able to declare to me, then ye have given to me thirty linen shirts, and thirty changes of garments.' And they say to him, `Put forth thy riddle, and we hear it!'
Also before they burnt the fat, the servant of priest came, and said to the man that sacrificed: Give me flesh to boil for the priest: for I will not take of thee boiled flesh, but raw.
Abide thou with me, fear not: for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life; But with me thou shalt be in safeguard.
And when Saul heard this he was quieted with the words of Jonathan, and swore: As Jehovah liveth he shall not be slain.
And as thy life hath been much set by this day in my eyes, so let my life be much set by in the eyes of Jehovah, and let him deliver me from all distress.
But certain good-for-nothing persons said, How is this man to be our saviour? And having no respect for him, they gave him no thereof.
And Jonathan said to David, Saul, my father, is purposing your death: so now, take care in the morning, and keep yourself safe in a secret place:
who will change the body of our humiliation to be conformed to the body of his glory, according to the working by which he is able even to subject all things to himself.
And now, behold, the king walketh before you: and I am old and grayheaded; and, behold, my sons are with you; and I have walked before you from my youth unto this day.
And the men of Jabesh said, To-morrow we will come out to you, and ye may do with us according to all that is good in your sight.
She said to her young men, "Go on before me. Behold, I am coming after you." But she didn't tell her husband, Nabal.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee: for thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah hath rejected thee from being king over Israel.
And he judged Israel three and twenty years, and he died and was buried in Samir.
Said to her: Give me, I pray thee, a little water, for I am very thirsty. She opened a bottle of milk, and gave him to drink, and covered him.
And so then, know and consider what you should do, for evil hast been decided against our master and against all his household, and he is such a wicked man, nobody can reason with him!"
Now all discipline seems for the moment not to be joyful but painful, but later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness for those who are trained by it.
And the house of Joseph, they also went up against Beth-el; and Jehovah was with them.
And Samson said to them, "Let me tell you a riddle. If you can fully explain it to me within the seven days of the feast, and find it out, I will give to you thirty linen garments and thirty festal garments.
And Jerubbaal, who is Gideon, arose early, and all the people that were with him, and they encamped besides the spring Harod; and he had the camp of Midian on the north by the hill of Moreh in the valley.
And she weepeth for it the seven days which their banquet hath been and it cometh to pass on the seventh day that he declareth to her, for she hath distressed him; and she declareth the riddle to the sons of her people.
And he divided the three hundred men into three bands, and he put a trumpet in every man's hand, and empty pitchers, and torches within the pitchers.
For lo, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son, and no razor shall come on his head; for the boy shall be a Nazirite of God from the womb; and he shall begin to save Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
And Gideon came to the Jordan, and passed over, he, and the three hundred men that were with him, faint, yet pursuing them.
And the women answered [one another] as they played, and said, Saul hath smitten his thousands, And David his ten thousands.
whose end destruction, whose god the belly, and glory in their shame, who mind earthly things:)
And David took the head of the Philistine and brought it to Jerusalem and placed his weapons in his tent.
For I will be merciful to their unrighteousness, and their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more.
And there was honey on the face of the field, and all the people came to the honey, the bees having gone from it;
And David cried to the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Answerest thou not, Abner? Then Abner answered and said, Who art thou that criest to the king?
The children of Israel departed from there at that time, every man to his tribe and to his family, and they each went out from there to his own inheritance.
And early in the morning he bought up and went to Saul; and word was given to Samuel that Saul had come to Carmel and put up a pillar, and had gone from there down to Gilgal.
Michal took the teraphim, and laid it in the bed, and put a pillow of goats' hair at itself head, and covered it with clothes.
And the children of Dan put up the pictured image for themselves; and Jonathan, the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, and his sons were priests for the tribe of the Danites till the day when the ark was taken prisoner.)
For many live, of whom I spoke about to you many times, but now speak about even weeping, as the enemies of the cross of Christ,
So David and his men got up and went, and put to death two hundred of the Philistines; and David took their private parts and gave the full number of them to the king, so that he might be the king's son-in-law. And Saul gave him his daughter Michal for his wife.
And the priest said to them, Go in peace: your way is guided by the Lord.
And Saul put up an altar to Jehovah; this was the first altar which he put up to Jehovah.
And the people answered him after this manner, saying, So shall it be done to the man that killeth him.
By faith he went out of Egypt, not being turned from his purpose by fear of the wrath of the king; for he kept on his way, as seeing him who is unseen.
and again, `Behold I and the children that God did give to me.'
and the five princes of the Philistines have seen , and turn back Ekron, on that day.
a minister of the sanctuary and of the true tent which Jehovah set up, not man.
and having fallen away, to renew them again to repentance, because they have crucified again for themselves the Son of God and held him up to contempt.
And he said to Zebee and Salmana: What manner of men were they whom you slew in Thabor? They answered: They were like thee, and one of them as the son of a king.
And the light of God was still burning, while Samuel was sleeping in the Temple of Jehovah where the ark of God was,
And the children of Dan sent of their family five men from their borders, men of valor, from Zorah, and from Eshtaol, to spy out the land, and to search it; and they said unto them, Go, search the land: who when they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, they lodged there.
Therefore Eli said to Samuel, "Go, lie down. It shall be, if he calls you, that you shall say, 'Speak, Yahweh; for your servant hears.'" So Samuel went and lay down in his place.
And Saul said, Give your decision between my son Jonathan and me. And Jonathan was taken.
And on that day they called him Jerubbaal, saying, Let Baal contend with him, because he hast broken down his altar.
in order to test Israel whether or not they would observe the way of Yahweh, to walk in it just as their ancestors did."
Then Samuel said to Saul, "Stay, and I will tell you what Yahweh said to me last night." He said to him, "Say on."
And when Gideon was come, behold, there was a man that told a dream unto his fellow, and said, Behold, I dreamed a dream, and, lo, a cake of barley bread tumbled into the host of Midian, and came unto a tent, and smote it that it fell, and overturned it, that the tent lay along.
And the people of Beth-shemesh were cutting their grain in the valley, and lifting up their eyes they saw the ark and were full of joy when they saw it.
and assembly of the first-born who are enrolled in heaven, and to God the judge of all, and to the spirits of righteous people made perfect,
But the woman said to him, "Look, you know what Saul did, how he exterminated the mediums and the soothsayers from the land! Why are you setting a trap for my life to kill me?"
And even Jehovah, came, and stood, and called as at the other times, Samuel, Samuel! And Samuel said, Speak, for thy servant heareth.
Now the Philistines gathered together all their armies to Aphek: and Israel encamped by a fountain which is in Jezreel.
When they got near Jebus the day was far gone; and the servant said to his master, Now let us go from our road into this village of the Jebusites and take our night's rest there.
He made a vow to Jehovah, speaking: If thou wilt deliver the children of Ammon into my hands,
considering reproach endured for the sake of Christ greater wealth than the treasures of Egypt, for he was looking to the reward.
Then his brethren and all the house of his father came down, and took him, and brought him up, and buried him between Zorah and Eshtaol in the burying-place, of Manoah his father. And he judged Israel twenty years.
And Elon the Zebulonite died, and was buried in Aijalon in the country of Zebulun, one.
And of the angels he says, Who makes his angels winds, and his servants flames of fire.
And I said unto you, I am Jehovah your God; fear not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell: but ye have not obeyed my voice.
For by this the elders obtained a testimony.
And the citizens of Gibeah rose against me, and surrounded the house because of me, by night; they thought to slay me, and my concubine have they humbled so that she died.
For he of whom these things are said belongs to another tribe, from which no one hast officiated at the altar.
And the men of Israel numbered themselves, apart from Benjamin, four hundred thousand men, drawing sword, each of these a man of war.
'Awake, awake, Deborah! Awake, awake, utter a song! Arise, Barak, and lead away your captives, you son of Abinoam.'
And he saith to Jether his first-born, `Rise, slay them;' and the young man hath not drawn his sword, for he hath been afraid, for he yet a youth.
When Samuel grew old he appointed his sons as judges over Israel.
The messengers therefore came to Gabaa of Saul: and they spoke these words in the hearing of the people; and all the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
and if not -- fire cometh out from Abimelech and devoureth the masters of Shechem and the house of Millo, on the way and fire cometh out from the masters of Shechem and from the house of Millo, on the way and devoureth Abimelech.'
They answered: What is it we ought to render unto him for sin? and they answered:
and the people taketh of the spoil of the flock and herd, the first part of the devoted thing, for sacrifice to Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.'
For where we sin wilfully after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains any sacrifice for sins,
And the sons of Israel cry unto Jehovah, saying, `We have sinned against Thee, even because we have forsaken our God, and serve Baalim.'
And the women, answering one another in their song, said, Saul hast put to death his thousands and David his tens of thousands.
And Gedeon made an ephod thereof, and put it in his city Ephra. And all Israel committed fornication with it, and it became a ruin to Gedeon and to all his house.
And the Philistines hear that the sons of Israel have gathered themselves to Mizpeh; and the princes of the Philistines go up against Israel, and the sons of Israel hear, and are afraid of the presence of the Philistines.
The hand of Midian prevailed against Israel; and because of Midian the children of Israel made themselves the caves which are in the mountains, and the caves, and the strongholds.
And Gaal spoke again, and said, Behold, people are coming down from the high part of the land, and one company is coming along by the way of the Magician's oak.
And David and Abishai came to the people by night, and behold, Saul lay sleeping within the wagon-defence, and his spear cleave in the ground at his head; and Abner and the people lay round about him.
Abiathar told David that Saul had slain Yahweh's priests.
Samuel also said unto Saul, Jehovah sent me to anoint thee to be king over his people, over Israel: now therefore hearken thou unto the voice of the words of Jehovah.
And at the end of two months she went back to her father, who did with her as he had said in his oath: and she had never been touched by a man. So it became a rule in Israel,
And Saul went in fear of David, because Jehovah was with David and had gone away from Saul.
And the woman said to him, But you have knowledge of what Saul hast done, how he hast put away out of the land those who have control of spirits and the users of secret arts: why would you, by a trick, put me in danger of death?
The descendants of Benjamin did likewise, they took wives for each of them from the dancers whom they seized, and they went and returned to their territory, and they rebuilt the cities and they lived in them.
(for my father fought for you, and adventured his life far, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian:
And Gideon son of Joash dieth, in a good old age, and is buried in the burying-place of Joash his father, in Ophrah of the Abi-Ezrite.
and her adversity hath also provoked her greatly, so as to make her tremble, for Jehovah hath shut up her womb.
Let your customs be without covetousness, contented with such things as you have; for he spake: I will not leave thee, neither will I forsake thee.
They saw a man coming out of the city, and they said to him: show us the entrance into the city, and we will show thee mercy.
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath made women childless, so shall thy mother be childless among women. And Samuel hewed Agag in pieces before Jehovah in Gilgal.
And Heli heard the noise of the cry, and he said: What meaneth the noise of this uproar? But he made haste, and came, and told Heli.
which a simile in regard to the present time, in which both gifts and sacrifices are oblation, which are not able, in regard to conscience, to make perfect him who is serving,
Then Samuel took a flask of oil and poured it over his head and kissed him and said, "Has not Yahweh anointed you as leader over his inheritance?
And Samuel said, What have you done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were going away from me, and you had not come at the time that had been fixed, and the Philistines had come together at Michmash;
And these are the nations that even Jehovah, left, to prove Israel by them, all that had not known all the wars of Canaan;
"The trees said to the vine, 'Come and reign over us.'
Then Deborah and Barak the son of Abinoam sang on that day, saying,
And Saul commanded his servants, saying, Commune with David secretly, and say, Behold, the king hath delight in thee, and all his servants love thee: now therefore be the king's son in law.
and that a man doth find his enemy, and hath sent him away in a good act; and Jehovah doth repay thee good for that which thou didst to me this day.
If in the fear of Jehovah you are his servants, hearing his voice and not going against the orders of Jehovah, but being true to Jehovah your God, you and the king ruleth over you, then all will be well:
but ye did well, having I laid with my affliction;
"Yahweh kills, and makes alive. He brings down to Sheol, and brings up.
And to the angels indeed he saith: He that maketh his angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire.
And thus shall ye say to him that liveth in prosperity, Peace be both to thee, and peace be to thy house, and peace be unto all that thou hast.
While Samuel was sacrificing the burnt-offering, the Philistines drew near for the battle against Israel. But Yahweh thundered against the Philistines with a great noise on that day and cast them into confusion so that they were defeated before Israel.
When the men of Ashdod, saw that it was so, they said, "The ark of the God of Israel shall not stay with us; for his hand is severe on us, and on Dagon our god."
And indeed those of the sons of Levi who receive the priesthood have a commandment to collect a tenth from the peoples according to the law, that is, from their brothers, although they are descended from Abraham.
And now I have heard that thou hast shearers: now thy shepherds that were with us, we hurt them not, neither was there ought missing unto them, all the while they were in Carmel.
The people, the ones commanding Gilead, said to each other, "Who is the man that will begin to fight against the Ammonites? He will be as head over all the inhabitants of Gilead."
But emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, being made in the likeness of men, and in habit found as a man.
For we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities; but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin.
So now, give ear to the voice of your servant, and let me give you a little bread; and take some food to give you strength when you go on your way.
and his sons have not walked in his ways, and turn aside after the dishonest gain, and take a bribe, and turn aside judgment.
Let us go forth therefore to him without the camp, bearing his reproach.
All the fighting men got up and, marching all night, took Saul's body and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan; and they came to Jabesh and had them burned there.
Now when Samuel was old, he made his sons judges over Israel.
And when David was returned, after the Philistine was slain, Abner took him, and brought him in before Saul, with the head of the Philistine in his hand.
The Philistines also were assembled to fight against Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and a multitude of people besides, like the sand on the sea-shore for number. And ascent they encamped in Machmas at the east of Beth-aven.
And Saul sent the messengers to see David, saying, Bring him up to me in the bed, that I may put him to death.
But if ye cannot explain to me, then shall ye give me thirty shirts, and thirty changes of raiment. And they said to him, Propound thy riddle, that we may hear it.
Then Saul said, "Disperse yourselves among the troops and say to them, 'Bring to me each one his ox and each his sheep and slaughter them in this place and eat, but do not sin against Yahweh by eating the animals with the blood.'" So all the troops brought them, each leading his ox in his hand that night, and slaughtered it there.
The prophet Gad said to David, "Don't stay in the stronghold. Depart, go into the land of Judah." Then David departed, and came into the forest of Hereth.
And there was a young man out of Beth-lehem-judah of the family of Judah, who was a Levite, and he sojourned there.
But the troops, the men of Israel, encourageth themselves, and again they arranged their battle lines in the place where they had arranged themselves the first day.
Thus also Christ did not glorify himself to become high priest, but the one who said to him, "You are my Son, to-day I have begotten you,"
For if, indeed, he were upon earth, he would not be a priest -- (there being the priests who are offering according to the law, the gifts,
But which of the angels hast he told at any time, "Sit at my right hand, Until I make your enemies the footstool of your feet?"
And Deborah a woman inspired, wife of Lapidoth, she is judging Israel at that time,
being confident of this very thing, that he who began a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ.
The officials of Succoth said, "Is the hand of Zebah and Zalmunna in your hand now, that we should give bread to your army?"
And this is even more clear if a second priest hast come up who is like Melchizedek,
And they served Jehovah all his days, and the days of the aged, that lived a long time after him, and who knew all the works of Jehovah, which he had done for Israel.
and ye -- ye have forsaken Me, and serve other gods, therefore I add not to save you.
At her feet he fell: he fainted, and he died; he rolled before her feet, and he lay lifeless and wretched.
And the king saith to runners, those standing by him, `Turn round, and put to death the priests of Jehovah, because their hand also with David, and because they have known that he is fleeing, and have not uncovered mine ear;' and the servants of the king have not been desiring to put forth their hand to come against the priests of Jehovah.
Now it came to pass one day that Jonathan the son of Saul said to the young man that bore his armour: Come, and let us go over to the garrison of the Philistines, which is on the other side of yonder place. But he told not this to his father.
And he stripped off his clothes also, and prophesied before Samuel in like manner, and lay down naked all that day and all that night. Wherefore they say, Is Saul also among the prophets?
Now there was a certain man of Ramathaimzophim, of the hill-country of Ephraim, and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephrathite:
And all the company send, and speak, unto the sons of Benjamin who in the rock Rimmon, and proclaim to them peace;
And Joash said to all that stood near him, Will *ye* contend for Baal? or will *ye* save him? he that contends for him, let him be put to death Whilst it is yet morning. If he be a god, let him plead for himself, because they have broken down his altar.
saying, Be certain that I will give you my blessing, and make your numbers very great.
Yahweh said to Samuel, "Listen to their voice, and make them a king." Samuel said to the men of Israel, "Everyone go to your own city."
And he said to the children of Israel, Jehovah, the God of Israel, hast said, I took Israel out of Egypt, and made you free from the hands of the Egyptians and from all the kingdoms that kept you down:
Remember prisoners, as bound with ; those that are evil-treated, as being yourselves also in body.
Wherefore when he cometh into the world, he saith: Sacrifice and oblation thou wouldest not: but a body thou hast fitted unto me:
And she was in bitterness of soul, and prayed unto Jehovah, and wept sore.
Howbeit Sisera fled away on his feet to the tent of Jael the wife of Heber the Kenite: for there was peace between Jabin the king of Hazor and the house of Heber the Kenite.
And Gideon cometh -- and the hundred men who with him -- into the extremity of the camp, the beginning of the middle watch (it hath only just confirmed the watchmen), and they blow trumpets -- dashing in pieces also the pitchers which in their hand;
for in their coming up out of Egypt, Israel goeth in the wilderness unto the Red Sea, and cometh in to Kadesh,
Then Samson went down to Timnah (and his father and his mother,) and came to the vine-gardens of Timnah; and a young lion came rushing out at him.
Jonathan cried after the boy, "Go fast! Hurry! Don't delay!" Jonathan's boy gathered up the arrows, and came to his master.
Then Saul said to David, Blessed be thou, my son David: thou shalt both do great things, and also shalt still prevail. So David went on his way, and Saul returned to his place.
But that which beareth thorns and briers is rejected, and is nigh unto cursing; whose end is to be burned.
So Samuel went back with Saul; and Saul worshiped Yahweh.
And when he had presented the gifts unto him, he followed his companions that came along with him.
And he judged Israel twenty and three years, and died, and was buried in Shamir.
And Jehovah saved Israel that day. And the fight went on as far as Beth-aven.
And the whole assembly sent to speak to the children of Benjamin that were at the ascent of Rimmon, and to proclaim peace to them.
and Jesse took a donkey loaded with bread and a skin of wine and one young goat and sent them to Saul by the hand of David his son.
Then the men of the city said to Joash, "Bring out your son, that he may die, because he hast broken down the altar of Baal, and because he hast cut down the Asherah that was by it."
For men indeed swear by a greater one, and in every reason of theirs the oath is final for confirmation.
And Ibzan came to his death and his body was put to rest at Beth-lehem.
Then David said to Jonathan, "Who will tell me if what your father answers you is harsh?"
and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
And Saul and all Israel hearing these words of the Philistine were dismayed, and greatly afraid.
And the tribes of Israel sent men to all the families of Benjamin, saying, What wickedness is this that hast been done among you?
And when his armour-bearer saw that Saul was dead, he likewise fell on his sword, and died with him.
Then the Philistines said: Who hath done this thing? And it was answered: Samson the son-in-law of the Thamnathite, because he took away his wife, and gave her to another, hath done these things. And the Philistines went up and burnt both the woman and her father.
So Saul's uncle said to him, "Please tell me, what did Samuel say to you?"
And they turned aside thither, to go in, to lodge in Gibeah. And he went in, and sat down in the open place of the city; and there was no one that received him into his house to pass the night.
And Saul built an altar to Jehovah: this was the first altar he built to Jehovah.
So the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten: for the men of Israel gave place to the Benjamites, because they trusted unto the liers-in-wait which they had set besides Gibeah.
whose voice shook the earth at that time, but now he hast promised, saying, "Yet once more I will shake not only the earth but also heaven."
who was a figure for the time then present, in which were offered both gifts and sacrifices, that could not make him that did the service perfect, as concerning the conscience;
And they cut off his head, and stripped off his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to publish it in the house of their idols, and among the people.
But when they came up from Egypt, then Israel walked through the wilderness as far as the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh.
And they send messengers unto the inhabitants of Kirjath-Jearim, saying, `The Philistines have sent back the ark of Jehovah; come down, take it up unto you.'
When he again brings in the first-born into the world he says, "Let all the angels of God worship him."
And God humbleth on that day Jabin king of Canaan before the sons of Israel,
Then Samuel went to Ramah and Saul went up to his house in Gibeah of Saul.
because of your participation in the gospel from the first day until now,
The number of the days that David lived in the country of the Philistines was a full year and four months.
And his brethren come down, and all the house of his father, and lift him up, and bring him up, and bury him between Zorah and Eshtaol, in the burying-place of Manoah his father; and he hath judged Israel twenty years.
And he went down and talked with the woman; and she pleased Samson well.
But Israel had compassion for Benjamin, their relatives, and they said, "Today one tribe is cut off from Israel.
So the Spirit of Yahweh took possession of Gideon, and he blew on the trumpet, and the Abiezrites were called to follow him.
And David said: Will the men of Ceila deliver me, and my men, into the hands of Saul? And Jehovah said: They will deliver thee up.
And Jephte again sent word by them, and commanded them to say to the king of Ammon;
For this Melchisedec, king of Salem, priest of the Most High God, who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him;
And word was given to Sisera that Barak, the son of Abinoam, had gone up to Mount Tabor.
He will take a tenth of your sheep: and you will be his servants.
And the word of Jehovah came to Samuel, saying,
Now the female donkeys of Kish the father of Saul got lost, and Kish said to Saul his son, "Please take one of the servants with you and get up; go and seek female donkeys."
Now when David had said these words to Saul, Saul said, Is this your voice, David, my son? And Saul was overcome with weeping,
Now there was a certain man of Zorah of the family of the Danites, and his name was Manoah; and his wife had never given birth to a child.
from now on waiting until his enemies are made a footstool for his feet.
And Delilah said to Samson, "Until now you have mocked me and told lies to me. Tell me how you can be bound." And he said to her, "If you weave seven locks of my head with warp-threads."
And it cometh to pass, on that night, that even Jehovah, saith unto him, `Rise, go down into the camp, for I have given it into thy hand;
For he hast said this somewhere about the seventh day, "God rested on the seventh day from all his works";
Yahweh said to the children of Israel, "Didn't I save you from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
Now Midian, Amalekites, and all the people of the east were lying in the valley, like a great multitude of locusts; their camels were without number, as numerous as the sand that is on the uttermost part of the sea.
And the woman said to him, Behold, thou knowest what Saul hast done, how he hast cut off the necromancers and the soothsayers out of the land; and why layest thou a snare for my life, to cause me to die?
Therefore deal kindly with your servant; for you have brought your servant into a covenant of Yahweh with you; but if there is iniquity in me, kill me yourself; for why should you bring me to your father?"
And it is still more light; if another priest according to the likeness of Melchizedek arises,
Then Saul said to David, "Here is my older daughter Merab. I will give her to you as your wife. Only be a brave warrior for me and fight the battles of Yahweh." For Saul thought, "My hand will not be against him, but let the hand of the Philistines be against him."
But Saul had given Michal his daughter, David's wife, to Phalti the son of Laish, who was of Gallim.
And Saul knew David's voice, and said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord, O king.
and take Yahweh's ark, and lay it on the cart. Put the jewels of gold, which you return him for a trespass-offering, in a coffer by itself side; and send it away, that it may go.
By faith they crossed the Red Sea as if on dry land; the Egyptians, when they made the attempt, were drowned.
And it was so: for he bought up early on the morning after, and twisting the wool in his hands, he bought a basin full of water from the dew on the wool.
And Samuel took a stone, and laid it between Masphath and Sen: and he called the place, the Stone of help. And he said: Thus far Jehovah hath helped us.
And Gaal the son of Ebed said, Who is Abimelech, and who is Shechem, that we should serve him? is he not the son of Jerubbaal? and Zebul his overseer? Serve the men of Hamor the father of Shechem! and why should *we* serve him?
and Saul saith, `I give her to him, and she is to him for a snare, and the hand of the Philistines is on him;' and Saul saith unto David, `By the second -- thou dost become my son-in-law to-day.'
For a covenant is of force, after men are dead: otherwise it is as yet of no strength, whilst the testator liveth.
And Jehovah said to Gideon, By the three hundred men that lapped will I save you, and give Midian into thy hand; and let all the people go every man to his place.
Therefore don't throw away your boldness, who hast a great reward.
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath rent the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given it to a neighbor of thine, that is better than thou.
But you have come to Mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, to the heavenly Jerusalem, and to tens of thousands of angels, to the festal gathering
The first therefore also indeed had ordinances of service, and the sanctuary, a worldly one.
And his uncle said to him: Tell me what Samuel said to thee.
Then Saul said to his armor bearer, "Draw your sword and thrust me through with it, so that these uncircumcised do not come and thrust me through and make a fool of me!" But his armor bearer was not willing to do so because he was very afraid. Therefore Saul took the sword and fell on it.
So Samuel took a single nursing lamb and sacrificed it as a whole burnt-offering to Yahweh. Then Samuel cried out to Yahweh on behalf of Israel, and Yahweh answered him.
And Saul went to Gibeah, to his house; and with him went the men of war whose hearts had been touched by God.
And David behaved wisely in all his ways, and Jehovah was with him.
Are not the things which thy god Chamos possesseth, due to thee by right? But what Jehovah our God hath obtained by conquest, shall be our possession;
But Jephthah said to the responsible men of Gilead, Did you not, in your hate for me, send me away from my father's house? Why do you come to me now when you are in trouble?
Saul knew David's voice, and said, "Is this your voice, my son David?" David said, "It is my voice, my lord, O king."
And the men of Ephraim said to him, What is this thing thou hast done to us, that thou calledst us not, when thou wentest to fight with Midian? And they disputed with him sharply.
Previously saying, "Sacrifices and offerings and whole burnt-offerings and sacrifices for sin you didn't desire, neither had pleasure in them" (those which are offered according to the law),
And the leaders of all the people, all the tribes of Israel, presented themselves in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand sword-bearing infantry.
And then, as she was riding on the donkey and was going down the ravine of the mountain, David and his men were coming down to meet her, and she met them.
And she said to her young men, Go on before me; behold, I come after you. But she did not tell her husband Nabal.
And as it is appointed unto men once to die, and after this the judgment:
And there fell of Benjamin eighteen thousand men; all these were men of valor.
And they say, `Rise, and we go up against them, for we have seen the land, and lo, very good; and ye are keeping silent! be not slothful to go -- to enter in to possess the land.
Therefore Jehovah left those nations, without driving them out hastily; neither delivered he them into the hand of Joshua.
And because by God's law death comes to men once, and after that they are judged;
So they told Saul, and he sent other messengers, and they also prophesied. Again Saul sent messengers a third time, and they also prophesied.
Take courage and behave like men, ye Philistines: lest you come to be servants to the Hebrews, as they have served you; take courage and fight.
And he took his people, separating them into three bands, and was waiting secretly in the field; and when he saw the people coming out of the village, he went up and made an attack on them.
Since then the children have shared in flesh and blood, he also himself in the same way partook of the same, that through death he might bring to nothing him who had the power of death, that is, the devil,
Then Samson went down with his father and mother to Thamnatha. And when they were come to the vineyards of the village, behold, a young lion met him raging and roaring.
(for they indeed have been made priests without an oath), but he with an oath by him that says of him, "The Lord swore and will not change his mind, 'You are a priest forever, according to the ordinance of Melchizedek.'"
And when the man rose up to depart, his father-in-law urged him: therefore he lodged there again.
And all the people went to Gilgal, and there they made Saul king before Jehovah in Gilgal, and there they sacrificed peace-offerings before Jehovah. And there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced exceedingly.
And her husband arose, and went after her, to speak kindly unto her, and to bring her again, having his servant with him, and a couple of asses: and she brought him into her father's house: and when the father of the damsel saw him, he rejoiced to meet him.
And David abideth in the wilderness, in fortresses, and abideth in the hill-country, in the wilderness of Ziph; and Saul seeketh him all the days, and God hath not given him into his hand.
And the Philistine came on and drew near David; and the man that bore the shield was before him.
There was no deliverer, because it was far from Sidon, and they had had no dealings with anyone. It was in the valley that belonged to Beth-rehob, and they rebuilt the city and lived in it.
And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that said, Shall Saul reign over us? bring the men, that we may put them to death.
But if ye shall still do wickedly, ye shall be consumed, both ye and your king.
And Abigail arose, and made haste, and got upon an ass, and five damsels went with her, her waiting virgin, and she followed the messengers of David, and became his wife.
And his mother's brethren spoke of him to all the men of Shechem, all these words, and they inclined their hearts after Abimelech, speaking: He is our brother:
Who will reform the body of our lowness, made like to the body of his glory, according to the operation whereby also he is able to subdue all things unto himself.
If one man does wrong to another, God will be his judge: but if a man's sin is against Jehovah, who will take up his cause? But they gave no attention to the voice of their father, for it was the Lord's purpose to send destruction on them.
If your young men are questioned they will say the same thing. So now, let my young men have favor in your eyes, for we are come at a good time; please give anything you may have by you to your servants and to your son David.
having been addressed by God a chief priest, according to the ordinance of Melchisedek,
and, now, swear to me by even Jehovah, -- thou dost not cut off my seed after me, nor dost thou destroy my name from the house of my father.'
And it shall come to pass, when Jehovah shall have done to my lord according to all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and shall have appointed thee over Israel;
And God gave ear to the voice of Manoah; and the angel of God came to the woman again when she was seated in the field; but her husband Manoah was not with her.
The teaching of baptisms, and of the laying on of hands, and of the future life of the dead, and of the judging on the last day.
Now Gideon had seventy sons who had come out of his loins, for he had many wives.
And my God will give you all you have need of from the wealth of his glory in Christ Jesus.
Then David fled from Naioth in Ramah and came and said before Jonathan, "What have I done? What is my guilt and what is my sin before your father that he is proving to kill me?
And the Philistines said, "Who hast done this?" And they said, "Samson the son-in-law of the Timnite, because he took his wife and gave her to his companion." And the Philistines went up and burned her and her father with fire.
and Gaal seeth the people, and saith unto Zebul, `Lo, people are coming down from the top of the hills;' and Zebul saith unto him, `The shadow of the hills thou art seeing like men.'
Abigail hurried, and arose, and rode on a donkey, with five princesses of hers who followed her; and she went after the messengers of David, and became his wife.
By faith Enoch was translated -- not to see death, and was not found, because God did transfer him; for before his translation he had been testified to -- that he had pleased God well,
and the sons of Israel cry unto Jehovah, for he hath nine hundred chariots of iron, and he hath oppressed the sons of Israel mightily twenty years.
Now therefore take and make a new cart: and two kine that have calved, on which there hath come no yoke, tie to the cart, and shut up their calves at home.
And they took two princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and they slew Oreb upon the rock Oreb and Zeeb they slew at the winepress of Zeeb, and pursued Midian, and brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to Gideon beyond the Jordan.
Then one of the young men answered, and said, "Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Bethlehemite who is skillful in playing, a mighty man of valor, a man of war, prudent in speech, and a handsome person; and Yahweh is with him."
And they spake unto him, saying, No; but we will bind thee fast, and deliver thee into their hand: but surely we will not kill thee. And they bound him with two new cords, and brought him up from the rock.
If one man shall sin against another, God may be quieted in his behalf: but if a man shall sin against Jehovah, who shall pray for him? And they hearkened not to the voice of their father, because Jehovah would slay them.
In that day Debbora and Barac son of Abinoem sung, and said:
And the old man went out to them, and said: Do not so, my brethren, do not so wickedly; because this man is come into my lodging, and cease I pray you from this folly.
But six hundred men, turning back, went in flight to the rock of Rimmon in the waste land, and were living on the rock of Rimmon for four months.
And Israel was humbled exceedingly in the sight of Madian.
So the woman asked, "Whom shall I bring up for you?" He said, "Bring up Samuel for me."
Then Samuel took a stone, and set it between Mizpah and Shen, and called itself name Ebenezer, saying, "Yahweh helped us until now."
and Christ, as a Son over his house, whose house are we, if the boldness and the rejoicing of the hope unto the end we hold fast.
Speak to all the men of Sichem: whether is better for you that seventy men all the sons of Jerobaal should rule over you, or that one man should rule over you? And withal consider that I am your bone, and your flesh.
And they said to him: Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways: make us a king, to judge us, as all the nations have.
***
God testifying with them, both by signs and wonders, by various works of power, and by gifts of the Holy Spirit, according to his own will?
They will salute you, and give you two loaves of bread, which you shall receive from their hand.
Now Eli was ninety-eight years old, and his eyes were fixed so that he was not able to see.
if by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead.
But they forgot Yahweh their God, so he sold them into the hand of Sisera, commander of the hosts of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought against them.
So the elders of Jabesh said to him, "Leave us alone for seven days so that we may send messengers in all the territory of Israel, and if there is no deliverer for us, then we will come out to you."
who is faithful to him that hast constituted him, as Moses also in all his house.
therefore I said, 'Now the Philistines will come down on me to Gilgal, and I haven't treated the favor of Yahweh.' I forced myself therefore, and offered the burnt offering."
But a certain writer hast given his witness, saying, What is man, that you keep him in mind! what is the son of man, that you take him into account?
who will transform our humble body to be conformed to his glorious body, in accordance with the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself.
And when the flame went up to heaven from the altar, the angel of Jehovah went up in the flame of the altar, while Manoah and his wife were looking on; and they went down on their faces to the earth.
And Achish said to his servants, Behold, ye see the man is mad; why did ye bring him to me?
And Saul said to him, whose son art thou, thou young man? And David answered, I am the son of thy servant Jesse the Bethlehemite.
For Jehovah disciplines the one whom he loves, and punishes every son whom he accepts."
And that year they vexed and oppressed the children of Israel: eighteen years, all the children of Israel that were beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
And Judah took Gaza, itself confines, and Ascalon and Accaron with their confines.
and say, `Why, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath this been in Israel -- to be lacking to-day, from Israel, one tribe?'
They asked, "Which one is there from the tribes of Israel who did not come up to Yahweh at Mizpah?" And behold, no one came from Jabesh-gilead to the camp, to the assembly.
And it was clear to David that Saul had evil designs against him, and he said to Abiathar the priest, Come here with the ephod.
But the Amorites would dwell in mount Heres in Aijalon, and in Shaalbim: yet the hand of the house of Joseph prevailed, so that they became tributaries.
And they said, If ye send away the ark of the God of Israel, send it not empty; but in any wise return him a trespass-offering: then ye shall be healed, and it shall be known to you why his hand is not journeyed from you.
Who chased and put him to flight, and drove him to the city: and many were slain of his people, even to the gate of the city:
That is to say, not made by a law based on the flesh, but by the power of a life without end:
If then he were on earth, he would not be a priest: seeing that there would be others to offer gifts according to the law,
Let us therefore fear, lest by any means, a promise being left us of entering into his rest, any of you should seem to come short of it.
And the men do so, and take two suckling cattle, and bind them in the cart, and their young ones they have shut up in the house;
Why abodest thou among the sheepfolds, To hear the bleating of the sheep? In the courses of Reuben there were great deliberations of heart!
But *he*, having offered one sacrifice for sins, sat down in perpetuity at right hand of God,
and kindleth fire in the torches, and sendeth out into the standing grain of the Philistines, and burneth from heap even unto standing grain, even unto vineyard -- olive-yard.
And again, when he bringeth in the firstbegotten into the world, he saith, And let all the angels of God worship him.
And through the land of Salisa, and had not found them, they passed also through the land of Salim, and they were not there: and through the land of Jemini, and found them not.
I will not again drive out anyone from before them from the nations that Joshua left when he died,
And when David came to Ziklag, he sent some of the goods to the responsible men of Judah, and to his friends, saying, Here is an offering for you from the goods of those who were fighting against Jehovah;
The angel of Yahweh said to Manoah, "If you keep me, I will not eat your food, but if you prepare a burnt-offering for Yahweh, you can offer it (for Manoah did not know that he was an angel of Yahweh)."
And David saith to Saul, `Why dost thou hear the words of man, saying, Lo, David is seeking thine evil?
Therefore receiving an immoveable kingdom, we have grace, whereby let us serve, pleasing God, with fear and reverence.
And Achias the son of Achitob brother to Ichabod the son of Phinees, the son of Heli the priest of Jehovah in Silo, wore the ephod. And the people knew not whither Jonathan was gone.
In those days there was no king in Israel; every man did what was right in his own eyes;
Samuel said, "What have you done?" Saul said, "Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and that you didn't come within the days appointed, and that the Philistines assembled themselves together at Michmash;
Her wise women gave answer to her, yes, she made answer again to herself,
Then I will send word to my servant, 'Go, find the arrows!' If I clearly say to the boy, 'Look, the arrows are on this side of you; bring it,' then come, for it means peace for you. And there is no problem, as Yahweh lives.
So she wept before him the seven days of the feast: and at length on the seventh day as she was troublesome to him, he expounded it. And she immediately told her countrymen.
Manasseh also did not destroy Bethsan, and Thanac with their villages, nor the inhabitants of Dor, and Jeblaam, and Mageddo with their villages. And the Chanaanite began to dwell with them.
And Samuel said: Why askest thou me, seeing Jehovah hast departed from thee, and is gone over to thy rival:
See that ye refuse not him that speaketh. For if they escaped not who refused him that spake on earth, much more shall not we escape, if we turn away from him that speaketh out of heaven:
Now there was a certain man in the wilderness of Maon, and his possessions were in Carmel, and the man was very great: and he had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats: and it happened that he was shearing his sheep in Carmel.
So David was hid in the field, and the new moon came, and the king sat down to eat bread.
And the five princes of the Philistines saw, and they returned to Accaron the same day.
Forgive the iniquity of thy handmaid; for Jehovah will surely make for my lord a faithful house, because thou, my lord, fightest the battles of Jehovah; let not evil therefore be found in thee all the days of thy life.
And David went wherever Saul sent him, and did wisely: and Saul put him at the head of his men of war, and this was pleasing to all the people as well as to Saul's servants.
but if you can't declare it to me, then you shall give me thirty linen garments and thirty changes of clothing." They said to him, "Tell us your riddle, that we may hear it."
For every high priest is constituted for the offering both of gifts and sacrifices; whence it is needful that this one also should have something which he may offer.
I in turn have lent him to Yahweh. As long as he lives he is lent to Yahweh." Then they worshiped Yahweh there.
Then David learned of Yahweh yet again. Yahweh answered him, and said, "Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will deliver the Philistines into your hand."
Now faith is assurance of things hoped for, proof of things not seen.
again he ordains a certain day, today, speaking by David after so long a time, just as had been said before, "Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts."
And he left them under the eyes of the king of Moab, and they abode with him all the days that David was in the stronghold.
And the children of Benjamin were numbered at that time out of the cities twenty and six thousand men that drew sword, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, which were numbered seven hundred chosen men.
They will perish, but you continue. They all will grow old like a garment does.
So Saul sent the messengers to see David, saying, "Bring him up to me in the bed, so that I can kill him."
The Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, saying, "What shall we do with Yahweh's ark? Show us how we should send it to itself place."
He said, "You took away my gods that I had made, and the priest, and then you go away. What is now left for me? How can you say to me, 'What is the matter?'"
And it came to pass the same night, that Jehovah said to him, Take the young bullock, which thy father hath, even the second bullock of seven years old, and throw down the altar of Baal that thy father hath, and cut down the Asherah that is by it;
Delilah realized that he had confided in her, so she sent and called the rulers of the Philistines, saying, "Come up one more time, for he hast confided in me." And the rulers of the Philistines came up, and they brought the money with them.
thus doth God do to the enemies of David, and thus He doth add, if I leave of all that he hath till the light of the morning -- of those sitting on the wall.'
Aren't they all serving spirits, sent out for ministering for the sake of those who will inherit salvation?
Now the child Samuel ministered to Jehovah before Heli, and the word of Jehovah was precious in those days, there was no manifest vision.
Then the children of Israel went away from there, every man to his tribe and his family, every man went back to his heritage.
Deborah said to Barak, "Go; for this is the day in which Yahweh hast delivered Sisera into your hand. Hasn't Yahweh gone out before you?" So Barak went down from Mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
They said, "Behold, there is a feast of Yahweh from year to year in Shiloh, which is on the north of Beth-el, on the east side of the highway that goes up from Beth-el to Shechem, and on the south of Lebonah."
Yahweh said to Gideon, "By the three hundred men who lapped will I save you, and deliver the Midianites into your hand. Let all the other people go, each to his own place."
For then he ought to have suffered often from the beginning of the world: but now once at the end of generations for ever and ever. he hath appeared for the destruction of sin, by the sacrifice of himself.
But when the leader died they relapsed and acted corruptly, more than their ancestors, following other gods, serving them, and to cast us down to them. They would not give up their works or their stubborn ways.
and the people serve Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders who prolonged days after Joshua, who saw all the great work of Jehovah which He did to Israel.
And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah strengthened Eglon the king of Moab against Israel, because they had done evil in the sight of Jehovah.
which we have like an anchor of the soul, both firm and steadfast, and entering into the inside of the curtain,
`And, now, know and consider what thou dost; for evil hath been determined against our lord, and against all his house, and he too much a son of worthlessness to be spoken to.'
He said to her, "What does he look like?" She said, "An old man comes up. He is covered with a robe." Saul perceived that it was Samuel, and he bowed with his face to the ground, and showed respect.
The mother of Sisera looked out at a window, and cried through the lattice, Why is his chariot so long in coming? why tarry the wheels of his chariots?
And David came to the two hundred men, who being weary had stayed, and were not able to follow David, and he had set them to abide at the torrent Besor: and they came out to meet David, and the people that were with him. And David coming to the people saluted them peaceably.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they went away, every man to his place.
And David smote the land, and left neither man nor woman alive, and took away the sheep, and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the apparel, and returned, and came to Achish.
So the children of Dan sent five most valiant men of their stock and family from Saraa and Esthaol, to spy out the land, and to spy out it diligently: and they said to them: Go, and spy out the land. They went on their way, and when they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, they went into the house of Michas, and rested there:
And they took their bones, and buried them under the tamarisk at Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
And Saul made an attack on the Amalekite from Havilah on the road to Shur which is before Egypt.
And God clave the hallow rock which was in Lehi, and water came out of it. And he drank, and his spirit returned, and he revived. Therefore itself name was called En-hakkore, which is in Lehi unto this day.
The Israelites went up and wept before Yahweh until evening and learned of Yahweh, saying, "Should we again draw near from the battle against the descendants of Benjamin, our relatives?" And Yahweh said, "Go up against them."
Then the chiefs went down to the doors: the Lord's people went down among the strong ones.
And she dwelt under the palm-tree of Deborah between Ramah and Beth-el in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel came up to her for judgment.
She named the child Ichabod, saying, "The glory hast departed from Israel"; because God's ark was taken, and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
I thought thou hadst hated her, and therefore I gave her to thy friend: but she hath a sister, who is younger and fairer than she, take her to wife instead of her.
And after him came Shamgar, the son of Anath, who put to death six hundred Philistines with an ox-stick; and he was another saviour of Israel.
being able to exercise forbearance towards the ignorant and erring, since he himself also is clothed with infirmity;
and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he rent it as one rends a kid, and nothing was in his hand. And he did not tell his father or his mother what he had done.
And one of the people answering, said: Thy father hath bound the people with an oath, speaking: Cursed be the man that shall eat any food this day. And the people were faint.)
and did taste the good saying of God, the powers also of the coming age,
He hath come unto Lehi -- and the Philistines have shouted at meeting him -- and the Spirit of Jehovah prospereth over him, and the thick bands which on his arms are as flax which they burn with fire, and his bands are wasted from off his hands,
Moreover the Hebrews that had been with the Philistines yesterday and the day before, and went up with them into the camp, returned to be with Israel, who were with Saul and Jonathan.
Wherefore the sin of the young men was exceeding great before Jehovah: because they withdrew men from the sacrifice of Jehovah.
Yahweh took note of Hannah, and she conceived and gave birth to three sons and two daughters, while the young man Samuel grew up with Yahweh.
Then him who is left of the honorable ones He caused to rule the people of Jehovah, He caused me to rule among the mighty.
And the Philistines are afraid, for they said, `God hath come in unto the camp;' and they say, `Wo to us, for there hath not been like this heretofore.
Lest there be any fornicator, or profane person, as Esau: who for one mess, sold his first birthright.
And the Philistines were subdued, and came no more into the borders of Israel; and the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
But the lad knew not any thing: only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
We have an altar, whereof they have no power to eat who serve the tabernacle.
For indeed he was sick nigh unto death: but God had mercy on him; and not on him only, but on me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow.
and Jehovah is with Judah, and he filleth the hill-country, but not to take possession of the valley, for they have chariots of iron.
But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than God, for the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor: that, through the grace of God, he might taste death for all.
and Abimelech son of Jerubbaal goeth to Shechem, unto his mother's brethren, and speaketh unto them, and unto all the family of the house of his mother's father, saying,
For Israel and the Philistines had put the battle in array, army against army.
For if Jesus had brought them into rest, he would not have spoken afterwards about another day.
Now David fled and escaped, and came to Samuel at Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him. He and Samuel went and lived in Naioth.
And Saul went up from following the Philistines; and the Philistines went to their own place.
And they sent messengers to the children of Benjamin, that were in the rock Rimmon, and commanded them to receive them in peace.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.
For it is impossible concerning those who have once been enlightened, and have tasted the heavenly gift, and become sharers of the Holy Spirit,
Therefore Yahweh's anger burned against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Cushan Rishathaim king of Mesopotamia; and the children of Israel served Cushan Rishathaim eight years.
And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanite, Hittite, and Amorite, and Perizzite, and Hivite, and Jebusite):
For Yahweh will not forsake his people for the sake of his great name, because Yahweh hast decided to make you his own people.
And when he was come, Heli sat upon a stool over against the way watching. For his heart was fearful for the ark of God. And when the man was come into the city, he told it: and all the city cried out.
And when Zebul the ruler of the city heard the words of Gaal the son of Ebed, his anger was kindled.
And David saith unto his heart, `Now am I consumed one day by the hand of Saul; there is nothing for me better than that I diligently escape unto the land of the Philistines, and Saul hath been despairing of me -- of seeking me any more in all the border of Israel, and I have escaped out of his hand.'
having a golden altar of incense, and the ark of the covenant overlaid on all sides with gold, in which was a golden pot holding the manna, Aaron's rod that budded, and the tablets of the covenant;
And the cook took up the shoulder, and set it before Saul. And Samuel said: Behold what is left, set it before thee, and eat: because it was kept of purpose for thee, when I invited the people. And Saul ate with Samuel that day.
David said to Saul, "Who am I, and what is my life, or my father's family in Israel, that I should be son-in-law to the king?"
So Sisera got together all his war-carriages, nine hundred war-carriages of iron, and all the people who were with him, from Harosheth of the Gentiles as far as the river Kishon.
Woe to us; for there was no such great joy yesterday and the day before: Woe to us. Who shall deliver us from the hand of these high gods? these are the gods that struck Egypt with all the plagues in the desert.
So David again learned of Yahweh, and Yahweh answered him and said, "Get up, go down to Keilah, for I am giving the Philistines into your hand."
And they sent and gathered all the lords of the Philistines unto them, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they said, Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried about to Gath. And they carried the ark of the God of Israel about .
So the priest gave him holy bread; for there was no bread there but the show bread that was taken from before Yahweh, to put hot bread in the day when it was taken away.
For every high priest is appointed in order to offer both gifts and sacrifices; therefore it was necessary for this one also to have something that he offers.
And David said to Ahimelech, And is there not here under thy hand spear or sword? for I have neither brought my sword nor my weapons with me, for the king's business was urgent.
Called by God a high priest according to the ordinance of Melchisedech.
Then Jonathan called David, and Jonathan declared to him all those things. And Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was in his presence as previously.
And Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house to Gibeah of Saul.
and fell at his feet, and said, Upon me, my lord, me let the iniquity be; but let thy handmaid, I pray thee, speak in thine ears, and hear the words of thy handmaid.
And the angel of Jehovah said to Manoah, Of all that I said unto the woman let her learn prudence;
Yea, if in truth and in sincerity ye have acted with Jerubbaal and with his house this day, rejoice ye in Abimelech, and he doth rejoice -- even he -- in you;
And Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, If ye take me back to fight against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah give them up before me, shall I be your head?
Wherefore when Saul saw that he behaved himself very wisely, he was afraid of him.
And when Dalila had done this, she said to him: The Philistines are upon thee, Samson. And roused out of sleep he drew out the nail with the hairs and the lace.
And those men who were not overtake by death were cruelly diseased: and the cry of the village went up to heaven.
The Hebrews who had been for the Philistines previously, who had gone up with them into the camp all around, even they joined Israel who were with Saul and Jonathan.
But he answered thus: Behold thou shalt conceive and bear a son: beware thou drink no wine, nor strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing; for the child shall be a Nazirite of God from his infancy, from his mother's womb until the day of his death.
And Samuel spoke all the words of Jehovah to the people that asked of him a king.
When the messengers came in, behold, the teraphim was in the bed, with the pillow of goats' hair at itself head.
And when he had been made complete, he became the giver of eternal salvation to all those who are under his orders;
And Saul came to the village of Amalek, and took up his position in the valley secretly.
And she arose and bowed herself on her face to the earth, and said, Behold, let thy handmaid be a handmaid to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.
Jehovah sent a prophet to the children of Israel, who said to them, Jehovah the God of Israel, hast said, I took you up from Egypt, out of the prison-house;
Now when Saul had taken his place as ruler of Israel, he made war on those who were against him on every side, Moab and the children of Ammon and Edom and the kings of Zobah and the Philistines; and whichever way he went, he overcame them.
But a certain woman sent a great stone, such as is used for crushing grain, on to the head of Abimelech, cracking the bone.
And the people say unto Samuel, `Who is he that saith, Saul doth reign over us! give ye up the men, and we put them to death.'
See that you give ear to his voice which comes to you. For if those whose ears were shut to the voice which came to them on earth did not go free from punishment what chance have we of going free if we give no attention to him whose voice comes from heaven?
Then Jesse made Shammah to pass by. And he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
But you know the proof of him, that, as a child serves a father, so he served with me in furtherance of the Good News.
And Samuel heareth all the words of the people, and speaketh them in the ears of Jehovah;
David was greatly distressed; for the people spoke of stoning him, because the souls of all the people were grieved, every man for his sons and for his daughters; but David strengthened himself in Yahweh his God.
By faith, Abel offered to God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, through which he had testimony given to him that he was righteous, God testifying with respect to his gifts; and through it he, being dead, still speaks.
Then she said to her father, Only do this for me: let me have two months to go away into the mountains with my friends, weeping for my sad fate.
And when they of Ashdod, arose early on the morrow, behold, Dagon was fallen upon his face to the earth before the ark of Jehovah. And they took Dagon, and set him in his place again.
She brought it before Saul, and before his servants; and they ate. Then they rose up, and went away that night.
For every house is built by someone, but the one who built all things is God.
Then after a time he went back to take her; and turning from the road to see the dead body of the lion, he saw a mass of bees in the body of the lion, and honey there.
After whom is the king of Israel come out? after whom dost thou pursue? after a dead dog, after a single flea.
Then Jonathan and David made a covenant, because he loved him as his own soul.
for a covenant over dead victims stedfast, since it is no force at all when the covenant-victim liveth,
In like manner do *ye* also rejoice, and rejoice with me.
So the king sent to summon Ahimelech the son of Ahitub the priest, and all his father's household, the priests who were at Nob. So all of them came to the king.
that from year to year the daughters of Israel go to keep the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite four days in the year.
saying, "Surely blessing I will bless you, and multiplying I will multiply you."
And Saul consulted Jehovah: Shall I pursue after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hands of Israel? And he answered him not that day.
And when the boy had gone, David came from his secret place by the hill, and falling to the earth went down on his face thrice: and they gave one another a kiss, weeping together, till David's grief was the greater.
Let your desire be for peace with all men, and to be made holy, without which no man may see Jehovah;
When the men of Israel saw that they were in a strait, (for the people were distressed,) then the people did hide themselves in caves, and in the thickets, and in rocks, and in high places, and in pits.
So to this day no priest of Dagon, or any who come into Dagon's house, will put his foot on the doorstep of the house of Dagon in Ashdod.
While Israel dwelt in Heshbon and itself dependent villages, and in Aroer and itself dependent villages, and in all the cities that are along the banks of the of the Arnon, three hundred yearswhy did ye not recover within that time?
let us approach with a true heart, in full assurance of faith, sprinkled as to our hearts from a wicked conscience, and washed as to our body with pure water.
and he saith unto them, `Pursue after me, for Jehovah hath given your enemies, the Moabites, into your hand;' and they go down after him, and capture the passages of the Jordan towards Moab, and have not permitted a man to pass over.
And when they were a good way from the house of Mica, the men that were in the houses near to Micah's house were gathered together, and overtook the children of Dan.
Then Saul said to his servant, You have said well; come, let us go. So they went to the village where the man of God was.
Zebulun did not take possession of Kitron, nor the inhabitants of Nahalol; but the Canaanites dwelt among them, and became tributaries.
But Jehovah said to him, Peace be with you; have no fear: you are in no danger of death.
And Jehovah was seen again in Shiloh; for Jehovah gave to Samuel in Shiloh the revelation of his word.
But this man oblation one sacrifice for sins, for ever sitteth on the right hand of God,
Howbeit we may not give them wives of our daughters: for the children of Israel have sworn, saying, Cursed be he that giveth a wife to Benjamin.
And the Philistine drew near morning and evening, and presented himself forty days.
And he saith, `What the word which He hath spoken unto thee? I pray thee, hide it not from me; so doth God do to thee, and so doth He add, if thou hidest from me a word of all the words that He hath spoken unto thee.'
Then he took his stick in his hand, and got five smooth stones from the bed of the stream and put them in a bag such as is used by sheep-keepers; and in his hand was a leather band used for sending stones; and so he went in With the Philistine.
Tarry with me! Do not fear, because he who seeks my life seeks your life. You are in good care with me."
And caught a young man of the men of Succoth, and inquired of him: and he described unto him the princes of Succoth, and the elders thereof, even threescore and seventeen men.
a wall they have been unto us both by night and by day, all the days of our being with them, feeding the flock.
And they passed thence to the hill-country of Ephraim, and came to the house of Micah.
And the men of Israel, besides Benjamin, were numbered four hundred thousand men that drew sword: all these were men of war.
Endure it for discipline. God is dealing with you as sons. For what son is there whom a father does not discipline?
But solid food is for the mature, who because of practice have trained their faculties for the distinguishing of both good and evil.
Therefore also I have lent him to Jehovah; as long as he liveth he shall be lent to Jehovah. And he worshipped Jehovah there.
And Saul took three thousand men, chosen out of all Israel, and went to seek David and his men upon the rocks of the wild goats.
The men who didn't die were struck with the tumors; and the cry of the city went up to heaven.
And they encamped against them, and destroyed the produce of the land, until thou come to Gazah, and they left no sustenance in Israel, neither sheep, nor ox, nor ass.
And Judah going forward against the Chanaanite, that dwelt in Hebron (the name whereof was in former times Cariath-Arbe) slew Sesai, and Ahiman, and Tholmai:
And Othniel, the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother, took it; so he gave him his daughter Achsah for his wife.
Then they said to him, We have come down to take you and give you up into the hands of the Philistines. And Samson said to them, Give me your oath that you will not make an attack on me yourselves.
And his return was to Ramah; for there was his house, and there he judged Israel; and there he built an altar to Jehovah.
When Gaal saw the army, he said to Zebul, "Look, people are coming down from the top of the mountains!" And Zebul said to him, "The shadows of the mountains look like people to you."
Remember your leaders who have spoken to you the word of God; and considering the issue of their conversation, imitate their faith.
And deliver them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage.
if ye then have dealt truly and sincerely with Jerubbaal and with his house this day, rejoice ye in Abimelech, and let him also rejoice in you;
On the third day you must go down quickly and go to the place where you hid yourself on the day all this started and remain besides the stone Ezel.
and let us consider one another for provocation to love and good works;
And Manoah said unto his wife, We shall surely die, because we have seen God.
I pursue, towards goal, for the prize of the calling on high of God in Christ Jesus.
This day will Jehovah deliver thee into my hand; and I will smite thee, and take thy head from thee; and I will give the dead bodies of the host of the Philistines this day unto the birds of the heavens, and to the wild beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel.
And because of this, he is the mediator of a new covenant, in order that, because a death hast taken place for the redemption of transgressions committed during the first covenant, those that are called may receive the promise of the eternal inheritance.
But I have faith in Jehovah that I myself will come before long.
And they said to the messengers that came: Thus shall you say to the men of Jabes Galaad: To-morrow, when the sun shall be hot, you shall have relief. The messengers therefore came, and told the men of Jabes: and they were glad.
And when the day came for Elkanah to make his oblation, he gave to Peninnah his wife, and to all her sons and daughters, their part of the feast:
And David said to the men near him, What will be done to the man who overcomes this Philistine and takes away the shame from Israel? for who is this Philistine, a man without circumcision, that he hast put shame on the armies of the living God?
And when I saw this, I put my life in my own hands, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah delivered them into my hands. What have I deserved, that you should rise up to fight against me?
And the children of Dan said unto him, Let not thy voice be heard among us, lest angry fellows run upon thee, and thou lose thy life, with the lives of thy household.
By faith, he lived as an alien in the land of promise, as in a land not his own, dwelling in tents, with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise.
For we are the circumcision, who in spirit serve God; and glory in Christ Jesus, not having confidence in the flesh.
These are the golden tumors which the Philistines returned for a trespass-offering to Yahweh: for Ashdod, one, for Azzah one, for Ashkelon one, for Gath one, for Ekron one;
You shall make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land. You shall break down their altars.' But you have not listened to my voice. Why have you done this?
For to which of the angels hath he said at any time, Thou art my Son, to day have I begotten thee? And again, I will be to him a Father, and he shall be to me a Son?
The children of Israel didn't remember Yahweh their God, who had delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies on every side;
Now Hannah spoke in her heart; only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard, and Eli thought she was drunken.
And it came to pass, when the angel of Jehovah spoke these words to all the children of Israel, that the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
the five rulers of the Philistines, all the Canaanite, the Sidonians; and the Hivites living on Mount Lebanon, from Mount Baal Hermon up to Lebo-Hamath.
So Samuel turned again after Saul; and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: I have reckoned up all that Amalec hath done to Israel: I how he opposed them in the way when they came up out of Egypt.
And he gathered together his nine hundred chariots armed with scythes, and all his army from Haroseth of the Gentiles to the torrent Cison.
And he saith, `Go;' and he sendeth her away two months, and she goeth, she and her friends, and she weepeth for her virginity on the hills;
Now if he were on earth, he would not even be a priest, because there are those who offer the gifts according to the law,
And the king said, Make search and see whose son this young man is.
And his concubine that was in Shechem, she also bore him a son, and he gave him the name of Abimelech.
And Delilah said unto Samson, Behold, thou hast mocked me, and told me lies; now tell me, I pray thee, wherewith thou mightest be bound.
having a vessel of gold in it for burning perfumes, and the ark of the agreement, which was covered with gold and who had in it a pot made of gold for the manna, and Aaron's rod which put out buds, and the stones with the writing of the agreement;
and not by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood, he entered once for all into the most holy place, obtaining eternal redemption.
He smote them hip and thigh with a great slaughter; and he went down and lived in the cave in Etam's rock.
When Israel cried out to Yahweh on account of Midian,
For our God is an all-burning fire.
And Micah said to him, Whence comest thou? And he said to him, I am a Levite of Bethlehem-Judah, and I go to sojourn where I may find [a place].
and said to him, Thus saith Jephthah: Israel took not away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon.
And after him Abdon the son of Hillel, the Pirathonite, judged Israel.
And Saul saith to his young man, `Thy word good; come, we go;' and they go unto the city where the man of God .
And at the time of her death, when the women who are standing by her say, `Fear not, for a son thou hast borne,' she hath not answered, nor set her heart [to it];
Who being sent away, went into the land of Hethim, and built there a city, and called it Luza: which is so called until this day.
You will cry out in that day because of your king whom you will have chosen for ado; and Yahweh will not answer you in that day."
David said, "Yahweh who delivered me out of the paw of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine." Saul said to David, "Go! Yahweh will be with you."
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it from Ebenezer unto Ashdod.
And Samson's wife wept before him, and she said, "You must hate me; you do not love me. You told the riddle to my people, but you have not explained it to me." He said to her, "I have not explained it to my father and mother. Why should I explain it to you?"
If by any means I may attain to the resurrection which is from the dead.
And Jonathan spoke good of David to Saul his father, and said to him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David, because he hast not sinned against thee; for also what he did was very advantageous to thee;
And the destroyers came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies: one company turned unto the way that leadeth to Ophrah, unto the land of Shual:
The six hundred men armed with their weapons of war, who were of the children of Dan, stood by the entrance of the gate.
for [it is] impossible for those once enlightened, having tasted also of the heavenly gift, and partakers having became of the Holy Spirit,
Quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, recovered strength from weakness, became valiant in battle, put to flight the armies of foreigners:
And David took the head of the Philistine, and brought it to Jerusalem; but he put his armor in his tent.
And Samuel turned about to go away; but he laid hold upon the skirt of his robe, and it rent.
Then Achis gave him Siceleg that day: for which reason Siceleg belongeth to the kings of Judah unto this day.
for those in Racal, for those in the towns of the Jerahmeelites, for those in the towns of the Kenite,
And the people see him, and praise their god, for they said, `Our god hath given in our hand our enemy, and he who is laying waste our land, and who multiplied our wounded.'
And they stay till confounded, and lo, he is not opening the doors of the upper chamber, and they take the key, and open, and lo, their lord is fallen to the earth -- dead.
And they turned and went and put the little children, the livestock, and the valuable property in before them.
And they gathered together to Mizpeh, and drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah, and fasted on that day, and said there, We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizpah.
There was a young man out of Beth-lehem Judah, of the family of Judah, who was a Levite; and he lived there.
Now David had said, Surely in vain have I kept all that this man hath in the wilderness, so that nothing was missed of all that pertaineth unto him: and he hath requited me evil for good.
But Saul said, "No one will be put to death on this day, because to-day Yahweh hast provided deliverance in Israel."
And the house of Joseph sent to descry Beth-el. (Now the name of the city before was Luz.)
And he brought the gift to Eglon king of Moab; now Eglon was a very fat man.
Saul saw and knew that Yahweh was with David; and Michal, Saul's daughter, loved him.
And the princes of the Philistines come out, and it cometh to pass from the time of their coming out, David hath acted more wisely than any of the servants of Saul, and his name is very to the diligent.
and he saith to the men of Succoth, `Give, I pray you, cakes of bread to the people who at my feet, for they wearied, and I am pursuing after Zebah and Zalmunna kings of Midian.'
these shall perish, and Thou dost remain, and all, as a garment, shall become old,
And the messenger answered and said, Israel is fled before the Philistines, and there hath been also a great slaughter among the people, and thy two sons also, Hophni and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of God is taken.
And it came to pass when he had ended speaking, that he cast away the jawbone out of his hand, and called that place Ramath-Lehi.
He took up his position and in a loud voice said to the armies of Israel, Why have you come out to make war? Am I not a Philistine and you servants of Saul? Send out a man for yourselves and let him come down to me.
And now even Jehovah, the God of Israel hast dispossessed the Amorites from before his people Israel, and shouldest thou take possession of it?
And when I saw that ye delivered me not, I put my life in my hands, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah delivered them into my hand; wherefore then are ye come up unto me this day, to fight against me?
They shall perish; but thou remainest; and they all shall wax old as doth a garment;
Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite died, and was buried in Pirathon in the land of Ephraim, in the hill-country of the Amalekites.
So now, let my sin have forgiveness, and go back with me to give worship to Jehovah.
But David said to them, "You should not do so, my brothers, with what Yahweh hast given to us! He hast preserved us and hast given the raiding band that came against us into our hand.
And when Samuel saw Saul, Jehovah said to him: Behold, the man, of whom I spoke to thee, this man shall reign over my people.
Jehovah of hosts says, I will give punishment to Amalek for what he did to Israel, fighting against him on the way when Israel came out of Egypt.
And it came to pass about a month after this that Naas, the Ammonite came up, and began to fight against Jabes Galaad. And all the men of Jabes said to Naas: Make a covenant with us, and we will serve thee.
Hannah answered, "No, my lord, I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit. I have not been drinking wine or strong drink, but I poured out my soul before Yahweh.
Then Saul went up from following the Philistines; and the Philistines went to their own place.
And as she was riding on the ass, and coming down by the covert of the ascent, behold, David and his men came down opposite to her; and she met them.
Therefore I am sending him with special urgency, in order that, when you see him again you may rejoice, and I may be less anxious.
And David's servants came to Abigail to Carmel, and spoke to her, speaking: David hath sent us to thee, to take thee to himself for a wife.
For he who hast entered into his rest hast himself also rested from his works, as God did from his.
May Yahweh judge between me and you and may Yahweh avenge me of you; but my hand will not be on you.
Is this not David about whom they sing in the dances, saying, 'Saul hast killed his thousands, but David his ten thousands'?"
And Eli blessed Elkanah, and his wife, and said, `Jehovah doth appoint for thee seed of this woman, for the petition which she asked for Jehovah;' and they have gone to their place.
And when men arose early the next morning, behold, Dagon had fallen on his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah; and the head of Dagon and both the palms of his hands were cut off upon the threshold; only the fish-stump was left to him.
And the Spirit of Jehovah prospereth over him, and he goeth down to Ashkelon, and smiteth of them thirty men, and taketh their armor, and giveth the changes to those declaring the riddle; and his anger burneth, and he goeth up to the house of his father;
But these men have been very good to us; they did us no wrong and nothing of ours was touched while we were with them in the fields;
And Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it in those days,) saying, Shall I yet again go out to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I cease? And Jehovah said, Go up; for to-morrow I will deliver them into thy hand.
And a messenger came to Saul, speaking: Make haste to come, for the Philistines have poured in themselves upon the land.
And I will go out and stand besides my father in the field where thou art, and I will commune with my father of thee; and what I see, that I will tell thee.
And David came to Saul, and stood before him: and he loved him greatly; and he became his armourbearer.
because when they came up from Egypt, Israel went through the wilderness to the Red Sea and went to Kadesh.
who, through faith subdued kingdoms, worked out righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouth of lions,
"This time tomorrow I will send to you a man from the land of Benjamin, and you must anoint him as leader over my people Israel. He will deliver my people from the hand of the Philistines. For I have seen the suffering of my people, because their cry of distress hast come to me."
These all, having had testimony given to them through their faith, didn't receive the promise,
Watch out, brothers, lest there be in some of you an evil, unbelieving heart, with the result that you fall away from the living God.
And the trees said to the vine, 'You, come rule over us.'
and say unto him, `Lo, thou hast become aged, and thy sons have not walked in thy ways; now, appoint to us a king, to judge us, like all the nations.'
And Heli blessed Elcana and his wife: and he said to him: Jehovah give thee seed of this woman, for the loan thou hast lent to Jehovah. And they went to their own home.
When Saul was told, he sent other messengers, and they also prophesied. Saul sent messengers again the third time, and they also prophesied.
The villages ceased in Israel, Ceased until that I Deborah arose, that I arose a mother in Israel.
and the greater part of the brethren in the Lord, having confidence by my bonds, are more abundantly bold -- fearlessly to speak the word.
And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, speaking: What shall we do with the ark of Jehovah? tell us how we are to send it back to itself place? And they said:
And she said, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson! And he awoke out of his sleep, and thought, I will go out as at other times before, and disengage myself. And he knew not that Jehovah had departed from him.
And so it was, that they were slain on both sides by the enemies, and there was no rest of their men dying. They fell and were beaten down on the east side of the city Gabaa.
Out of Ephraim they came down into the valley; after you, Benjamin, among your tribesmen; from Machir came down the captains, and from Zebulun those in whose hand is the ruler's rod.
David settled with Achish in Gath, he and his men, each with his household. David took along his two wives Ahinoam from Jezreel and Abigail the wife of Nabal of Nabal the Carmelite.
And he said to his servant, Come, and let us draw near to one of these places, and lodge in Gibeah, or in Ramah.
Then Eli called Samuel, and said, "Samuel, my son!" He said, "Here I am."
And they said, Thou hast not advantage of us, nor oppressed us, neither hast thou taken aught of any man's hand.
The former insincerely preach Christ from selfish ambition, thinking that they add affliction to my chains;
and Jesse taketh an ass, bread, and a bottle of wine, and one he-goat, and sendeth by the hand of David his son unto Saul.
And Christ being come, chief priest of the coming good things, through the greater and more perfect tent not made with hands -- that is, not of this creation --
and I have all things, and abound; I am filled, having received from Epaphroditus the things from you -- an odor of a sweet smell -- a sacrifice acceptable, well-pleasing to God:
And the men of the city said unto him on the seventh day before the sun went down, What is sweeter than honey? And what is stronger than a lioness, and he said unto them, If ye had not plowed with my heifer; ye had not found out my riddle.
For men at all times make their oaths by what is greater; and any argument is ended by the decision of the oath.
And hast gone once and for ever into the holy place, having got eternal salvation, not through the blood of goats and young oxen, but through his blood.
And Jehovah called Samuel again. And Samuel arose and went to Heli, and said: Here am I: for thou calledst me. He answered: I did not call thee, my son: return and sleep.
For the law constitutes men high priests, having infirmity; But the word of swearing of the oath which after the law, a Son perfected for ever.
Then the Israelites returned from pursuing the Philistines and plundered their camp.
And she sent for Barak, the son of Abinoam, from Kedesh-naphtali, and said to him, Has not Jehovah, the God of Israel, given orders saying, Go and get your force into line in Mount Tabor, and take with you ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali and of the children of Zebulun?
And Eliab, his eldest brother, heareth when he speaketh unto the men, and the anger of Eliab burneth against David, and he saith, `Why this -- thou hast come down! and to whom hast thou left those few sheep in the wilderness? I have known thy pride, and the evil of thy heart -- for, to see the battle thou hast come down.'
She brought it before Saul and his servants, and they ate. Then they gat up and went away that very night.
But Samuel ministered before the face of Jehovah: being a child girded with a linen ephod.
having a golden censer, and the ark of the covenant overlaid all round about with gold, in which the golden pot having the manna, and the rod of Aaron that budded, and the tables of the covenant,
So Saul died, and his three sons, his armor bearer, and all his men together that same day.
And the men of Israel have turned back unto the sons of Benjamin, and smite them by the mouth of the sword out of the city, -- men unto cattle, unto all that is found; also all the cities which are found they have sent into fire.
How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God?
Nevertheless Saul didn't say anything that day, for he thought, "Something hast happened to him. He is not clean. Surely he is not clean."
When you go, you will come to an unsuspecting people, and the land is large; for God hast given it into your hand, a place where there is no lack of anything that is in the earth."
By faith we understand that the world was formed by the word of Jehovah: that from invisible things visible things might be made.
The charge was two-thirds of a shekel for the plowshare and for the mattock, and a third of a shekel for the pick and for the axe, and to set the goading sticks.
The king said to Doeg, "Turn and attack the priests!" Doeg the Edomite turned, and he attacked the priests, and he killed on that day eighty-five people who wore a linen ephod.
All through the life of Saul there was bitter war against the Philistines; and whenever Saul saw any strong man or any good fighting man, he kept him near himself.
And Barak calleth Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh, and he goeth up -- at his feet ten thousand men -- and Deborah goeth up with him.
of the teaching of baptisms, of the laying on of hands, of resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment.
So the servants of David came to Abigail at Carmel, and they spoke to her, saying, "David hast sent us to you to take you for his wife."
And all those falling of Benjamin are twenty and five thousand men drawing sword, on that day -- the whole of these men of valor;
Yahweh sent Jerubbaal, Bedan, Jephthah, and Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies on every side; and you lived in safety.
And the youth Samuel is going on and growing up, and good both with Jehovah, and also with men.
Therefore, since we are receiving an unshakable kingdom, let us be thankful, through which let us serve God acceptably, with awe and reverence.
Then Achish said to his servants, "Look, you see the man is insane. Why then have you brought him to me?
And one of the servants answering, said: Behold, I have seen a son of Isai the Beth-lehemite a skillful player, and one of great strength, and a man fit for war, and prudent in his words, and a comely man; and Jehovah is with him.
and the people make unto the spoil, and take sheep and oxen, and sons of the herd, and slaughter on the earth, and the people eat with the blood.
For every one that is a partaker of milk, is unskillful in the word of righteousness; for he is a little child.
For this man was counted worthy of greater glory than Moses, by so much as he that hath built the house, hath greater honor than the house.
All the Israelites went out, from Dan to Beer-sheba, including the land of Gilead, and they gathered as one body to Yahweh at Mizpah.
And Isai said to David his son: Take for thy brethren a ephi of frumenty, and these ten loaves, and run to the camp to thy brethren.
For, protesting against them, he says, See, the days are coming when I will make a new agreement with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah:
(for my father made war for you, and put his life in danger, and made you free from the hands of Midian:
For they came up regularly with their oxen and their tents; they came like the locust in number; they and their camels were without number; and they came into the land for itself destruction.
looking to Jesus, a God and perfecter of faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising itself shame, and hast sat down at the right hand of the throne of God.
And take these ten cheeses to the captain of their thousand, and see how your brothers are and come back with a sign to say how they are.
She arose, and bowed herself with her face to the earth, and said, "Behold, your servant is a servant to wash the feet of the servants of my lord."
And by the law almost all things are made clean with blood, and without blood there is no forgiveness.
and since we have a great priest over the house of God,
Behold, the days come; and I will cut off thy arm, and the arm of thy father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thy house.
And Saul said to Michol: Why hast thou deceived me so, and let my enemy go and flee away? And Michol answered Saul: Because he said to me: Let me go, or else I will kill thee.
The children of Israel went up and wept before Yahweh until eventide; and they asked of Yahweh, saying, "Shall I again draw near to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother?" Yahweh said, "Go up against him."
They put his armor in the house of Ashtaroth, and they fastened his body to the wall of Beth Shan.
Then Judah said to Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my heritage, so that we may make war against the Canaanites; and I will then go with you into your heritage. So Simeon went with him.
And shall I take my bread, and my water, and my flesh which I have killed for my shearers, and give to men whom I know not whence they are?
This thing isn't good that you have done. As Yahweh lives, you are worthy to die, because you have not kept watch over your lord, Yahweh's anointed. Now see where the king's spear is, and the jar of water that was at his head."
As Anna had her heart full of sorrow, she prayed to Jehovah, shedding tears,
And Gaal the son of Ebed came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem; and the citizens of Shechem put confidence in him.
And Abimelech dwelt at Arumah: and Zebul thrust out Gaal and his brethren, that they should not dwell in Shechem.
For those who say such things make it clear that they are seeking a country of their own.
And he had two wives, one named Hannah and the other Peninnah: and Peninnah was the mother of children, but Hannah had no children.
His son-in-law would not consent to his words, but straightway went forward and came over against Jebus, which by another name is called Jerusalem, leading with him two asses laden, and his concubine.
And he stood and cried unto armies of Israel, and said unto them, Why are ye come out to set your battle in array? am not I a Philistine, and ye servants to Saul? choose you a man for you, and let him come down to me.
And I trust in Jehovah, that I myself also shall come to you shortly.
And Eli said to Samuel, Go, lie down; and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, Jehovah, for thy servant heareth. So Samuel went and lay down in his place.
and forsake Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who bringeth them out from the land of Egypt, and go after other gods (of the gods of the peoples who round about them), and bow themselves to them, and provoke Jehovah,
and David riseth, and cometh in unto the place where Saul hath encamped, and David seeth the place where Saul hath lain, and Abner son of Ner, head of his host, and Saul is lying in the path, and the people are encamping round about him.
When you have departed from me today, then you will find two men by Rachel's tomb, on the border of Benjamin at Zelzah. They will tell you, 'The donkeys which you went to look for have been found; and behold, your father hast stopped caring about the donkeys, and is anxious for you, saying, "What shall I do for my son?"'
And the sons of Eli were evil and good-for-nothing men, having no knowledge of Jehovah.
`I, also, far be it from me to sin against Jehovah, by ceasing to pray for you, and I have directed you in the good and upright way;
Abimelech fought against the city all that day; and he took the city, and killed the people in it. He beat down the city, and sowed it with salt.
If they say thus to us, 'Wait until we come to you!' then we will stand still in our place, and will not go up to them.
The man Micah had for himself a shrine, and he made an ephod and teraphim, and he appointed one of his sons who became a priest for him.
Now the day came, and Elcana offered sacrifice, and gave to Phenenna his wife, and to all her sons and daughters, portions:
But concerning the Son, "Your throne, O God, is forever and ever, and the scepter of righteous is the scepter of your kingdom.
When the people saw him, they praised their god: for they said, "Our god hast delivered our enemy and the destroyer of our country, who hast slain many of us, into our hand."
As he says also in another place, "You are a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek."
The Holy Spirit this signifying, that the way into the holiest of all was not yet made manifest, while as the first tabernacle was yet standing:
Be strong, O Philistines, be men! Do not be servants to the Hebrews as they have been to you: go forward to the fight without fear.
And Achish gave him Ziklag that day; therefore Ziklag belongs to the kings of Judah unto this day.
And he smote the men of Beth-shemesh, because they had looked into the ark of Jehovah, even he smote of the people fifty thousand and threescore and ten men; and the people lamented, because Jehovah had smitten many of the people with a great slaughter.
Saul asked counsel of God, "Shall I go down after the Philistines? Will you deliver them into the hand of Israel?" But he didn't answer him that day.
Then she said to him, How canst thou say, I love thee, when thy heart is not with me? these three times hast thou mocked me, and hast not told me in what is thy great strength.
Look, days are coming when I will cut off your strength and the strength of the house of your ancestor so that no one in your house will live to old age.
For by one oblation he hath perfected for ever them that are sanctified.
And David delivereth all that Amalekite have taken; also his two wives hath David delivered.
And he will make them captains of thousands and of fifties; some he will put to work ploughing and cutting his grain and making his instruments of war and building his war-carriages.
But Saul and the people spared Agag, And the best of the sheep, and of the oxen, and of the fatlings, and the lambs, and all that was good, and would not utterly destroy them: but everything that was vile and wilt, that they destroyed utterly.
And he saith, `I have sinned; now, honor me, I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and turn back with me; and I have bowed myself to even Jehovah, thy God.'
And his father and his mother said to him, Is there no woman among the daughters of thy brethren, and among all my people, that thou goest to take a wife of the Philistines, the uncircumcised? And Samson said to his father, Take her for me, for she pleases me well.
So that when it was God's desire to make it specially clear to those who by his word were to have the heritage, that his purpose was fixed, he made it more certain with an oath,
And the limit of the Edomites went from the slope of Akrabbim from Selah and up.
And when the children of Israel made prayer to Jehovah, he gave them a saviour, Othniel, the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
Now Abimelech, the son of Jerubbaal, went to Shechem to his mother's family, and said to them and to all the family of his mother's father,
through being a Son, did learn by the things which he suffered -- the obedience,
and Abiathar declareth to David that Saul hath slain the priests of Jehovah.
And revealed are both of them unto the station of the Philistines, and the Philistines say, `Lo, Hebrews are coming out of the clefts where they have hid themselves.'
That through them I may prove Israel, whether they will keep the way of Jehovah to walk therein, as their fathers did keep it, or not.
and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ Lord to God Father's glory.
And Gilead's wife gave birth to sons, and when her sons became men, they sent Jephthah away, saying, You have no portion in the heritage of our father's house, for you are the son of another woman.
And he had seventy sons, who came out of his thigh, for he had many wives.
And Abdon son of Hillel, the Pirathonite, dieth, and is buried in Pirathon, in the land of Ephraim, in the hill-country of the Amalekite.
Saul and his men went to seek him. When David was told, he went down to the rock, and stayed in the wilderness of Maon. When Saul heard it, he pursued David in the wilderness of Maon.
Through faith he kept the passover, and the sprinkling of blood, lest he that destroyed the first-born should touch them.
Yahweh's angel came up from Gilgal to Bochim. He said, "I brought you out of Egypt, and have brought you to the land which I swore to give your fathers. I said, 'I will never break my covenant with you.
If indeed they had been thinking of that land from which they went out, they would have had enough time to return.
I also continue not to dispossess any from before them of the nations which Joshua hath left when he dieth,
that Jehovah called to Samuel. And he said, Here am I.
For unto the angels hath he not put in subjection the world to come, whereof we speak.
And he will take your daughters for perfumers, and cooks, and bakers.
He said, "What is the thing that he hast spoken to you? Please don't hide it from me. God do so to you, and more also, if you hide anything from me of all the things that he spoke to you."
And now they were come near Jebus, and the day was far spent: and the servant said to his master: Come, I beseech thee, let us turn into the city of the Jebusite, and lodge there.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it into the temple of Dagon, and set it by Dagon.
And Gideon buildeth there an altar to Jehovah, and calleth it Jehovah-Shalom, unto this day it yet in Ophrah of the Abi-Ezrites.
And they say to the messengers who are coming, `Thus do ye say to the men of Jabesh-Gilead: To-morrow ye have victory -- by the heat of the sun;' and the messengers come and declare to the men of Jabesh, and they rejoice;
And Samson said, Let death overtake me with the Philistines. And he put out all his strength, and the house came down on the chiefs and on all the people who were in it. So the dead whom he sent to destruction by his death were more than all those on whom he had sent destruction in his life.
And the trees said to the fig-tree, Come thou, reign over us.
And even Jehovah, saith unto Samuel, `Look not unto his appearance, and unto the height of his stature, for I have rejected him; for [it is] not as man seeth -- for man looketh at the eyes, and Jehovah looketh at the heart.'
having reasoned that God was able even to raise him from the dead, from which he received him back also as a symbol.
Give ear now to their voice: but make a serious protest to them, and give them a picture of the sort of king who will be their ruler.
Jephte therefore went with the princes of Galaad, and all the people made him their prince. And Jephte spoke all his words before Jehovah in Maspha.
And it shall be, when their fathers or their brethren come to complain to us, that we will say to them, Gratify us with them, because we did not take each man his wife in the war; for ye did not give them to them, that ye should now be guilty.
Then the men of the garrison answered Jonathan and his armor bearer, "Come up to us and we will show you something!" Then Jonathan said to his armor bearer, "Come up after me, for Yahweh hast given them into the hand of Israel!"
And you shall take the ark of Jehovah, and lay it on the cart, and the vessels of gold, which you have paid him for sin, you shall put into a little box, at the side thereof: and send it away that it may go.
But Barak pursued the chariots and the army to Harosheth of the Gentiles; and all the army of Sisera fell by the edge of the sword. There was not a man left.
and he sent messengers to Abimelech in Tormah, saying, "Look, Gaal son of Ebed and his relatives are coming to Shechem, and they are stirring up the city against you.
So the servants of David went back their way, and returning came and told him all the words that he said.
for it is testified, "You are a priest forever, according to the ordinance of Melchizedek."
Therefore welcome him in Jehovah with all joy, and consider such people highly honored,
And when the children of Ammon made war against Israel, the responsible men of Gilead went to get Jephthah back from the land of Tob;
After him Jair, the Gileadite arose, and he judged Israel twenty-two years.
And they told it to Jotham, and he went and stood on the top of mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said to them, Hearken to me, ye citizens of Shechem, that God may hearken to you.
And Jonathan said to David, Come, let us go out into the land. And the two of them went out together into the open country.
And Moses indeed faithful in all his house, as a ministering servant, for a testimony of the things to be spoken after:
There is none holy as Jehovah, for there is none besides thee, neither is there any rock like our God.
Then Manoah made prayer to Jehovah, and said, O Jehovah, let the man of God whom you sent come to us again and make clear to us what we are to do for the child who is to come.
And he came up, and told his father and his mother, and said, I have seen a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines: now therefore get her for me to wife.
By faith Abraham hath offered up Isaac, being been approved, and the only begotten he did offer up who did receive the promises,
For I am conscious that this will be for my salvation, through your prayer and the giving out of the stored wealth of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
And Saul cast the spear, and thought, I will smite David and the wall. But David turned away from him twice.
neither did they show kindness to the house of Jerubbaal, Gideon, according to all the goodness which he had shown to Israel.
Yea, the five men, those going to traverse the land, go up -- they have come in thither -- they have taken the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image -- and the priest is standing at the opening of the gate, and the six hundred men who are girded with weapons of war --
And he said, Go. And he sent her away for two months: and she went with its companions, and bewailing her virginity upon the mountains.
And the weight of the golden rings that he requested was a thousand seven hundred of gold, besides the moons, and eardrops, and the purple garments that were on the kings of Midian, and besides the chains that were about their camels' necks.
And the Philistines were assembled together to fight with Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and people as the sand which is on the sea-shore in multitude; and they came up, and encamped in Michmash eastward from Beth-Aven.
neither have they done kindness with the house of Jerubbaal -- Gideon -- according to all the good which he did with Israel.
And David was greatly distressed; for the people spoke of stoning him; for the soul of all the people was embittered, every man because of his sons and because of his daughters; but David strengthened himself in Jehovah his God.
For to me life is Christ and death is profit.
When Yahweh raised up judges for them, then Yahweh was with the judge, and saved them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge; for it grieved Yahweh because of their groaning by reason of those who oppressed them and troubled them.
And Samuel said, Was it not when thou wast little in thine eyes that thou the head of the tribes of Israel, and even Jehovah, anointed thee king over Israel?
He will take your daughters as his perfume makers and as cooks and as bakers.
Gilead's wife also bore for him sons; and the sons of his wife grew up and drove Jephthah away, and they said to him, "You will not inherit the house of our father because you are the son of another woman."
And Moab was subdued on that day under the hand of Israel. And the land had rest eighty years.
He asked for water, and she gave milk; in a drinking bowl for nobles, she brought curds.
O you of Israel, that have willingly offered your lives to danger, bless Jehovah.
And David saith unto Saul, `A shepherd hath thy servant been to his father among the sheep, and the lion hath come -- and the bear -- and hath taken away a sheep out of the drove,
And the princes of the Philistines said, What are these Hebrews? And Achish said to the princes of the Philistines, Is not this David, the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who hast been with me these days, or these years, and I have found nothing in him since the day of his falling away [to me] to this day?
And David rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep with a keeper, and took, and went, as Jesse had commanded him; and he came to the trench, as the host was going forth to the fight, and shouted for the battle.
Then early on the morning of the fifth day he bought up to go away; but the girl's father said, Keep up your strength; so the two of them had a meal, and the man and his woman and his servant did not go till after the middle of the day.
and his returning to Ramath, for there his house, and there he hath judged Israel, and he buildeth there an altar to Jehovah.
And the Philistines overtook Saul and his sons; and they put to death Jonathan and Abinadab and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul.
And David said to Achis: But what have I done, and what hast thou found in me thy servant, from the day that I have been in thy sight until this day, that I may not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?
When the children of Israel cried to Yahweh, Yahweh raised up a savior to the children of Israel, who saved them, Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
The hoofs of the horses were broken Whilst the stoutest of the enemies fled amain, and fell headlong down.
the grace with you all! Amen.
And he arose early in the morning on the fifth day to depart; and the damsel's father said, Comfort thy heart, I pray thee. And they tarried until afternoon, and they did eat both of them.
Gideon said to him, "Excuse me, my lord. If Yahweh is with us, why then hast all this happened to us? Where are all his wonderful works that our ancestors recounted to us, saying, 'Did not Yahweh bring us up from Egypt?' But now Yahweh hast forsaken us; he hast given us into the palm of Midian."
But the angel of Jehovah said to him, Why are you questioning me about my name, seeing that it is a wonder?
Now the Philistines gathered together their hosts to battle, and were gathered together at Shochoh, which belongeth to Judah, and encamped between Shochoh and Azekah, in Ephesdammim.
The cart came into the field of Joshua of Beth Shemesh, and stood there, where there was a great stone. Then they split the wood of the cart, and offered up the cows for a burnt-offering to Yahweh.
Yahweh repays to each one his righteousness and his faithfulness, for Yahweh gave you into my hand today, but I was not willing to stretch out my hand against Yahweh's anointed.
But he also despising the words of Israel, suffered him not to pass through his borders: but gathering an infinite multitude, went out against him to Jasa, and made strong opposition.
Now the ark of God was captured, and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, died.
But now this is the thing which we will do to Gibeah: [we go] by lot against it;
And David said to Saul, Let no man's heart become feeble because of him; I, your servant, will go out and have a fight with this Philistine.
And all the evil of the men of Shechem did God render back upon their heads; and upon them came the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbaal.
And these all, having obtained good tidings through faith, received not the promise:
Now consider how great this man was, unto whom even the patriarch Abraham gave the tenth of the spoils.
Now know ye the proof of him, that as a son with the father, so hath he served with me in the gospel.
But this we will do in common against Gabaa:
My brothers, take care that there is not by chance in any one of you an evil heart without belief, turning away from the living God:
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baals.
And Abdon, the son of Hillel, came to his death, and his body was put to rest in Pirathon in the land of Ephraim, in the hill-country of the Amalekites.
For the order which said, If the mountain is touched even by a beast, the beast is to be stoned, seemed hard to them;
Zebulun and Naphtali were a people that jeoparded their lives unto the death in the high places of the field.
So the two of them showed themselves to the garrison of the Philistines, and the Philistines said, "The Hebrews are coming out from the clefts in which they have hidden themselves."
And the men of Israel were distressed that day: for Saul had adjured the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth any food until evening, that I may be avenged on mine enemies. So none of the people tasted any food.
and a great priest over the house of God,
So the men of Jabesh said, to-morrow we will come out to you, and you may do to us whatever seems good to you.
But if you have fear of going down, take your servant Purah with you and go down to the booths;
Women received their dead by resurrection. Others were tortured, not accepting their those that escape, that they might receive a better resurrection.
And they smote the Philistines that day from Michmash to Ajalon; and the people were very faint.
that your rejoicing may abound in Christ Jesus in me through my presence with you again.
And the ambush hasted, and fell upon Gibeah; and the ambush drew along, and smote the whole city with the edge of the sword.
The children of Israel cried to Yahweh, for he had nine hundred chariots of iron; and he mightily oppressed the children of Israel for twenty years.
By faith we take that the worlds were formed by word of God, so that that which is seen should not take itself origin from things which appear.
David went from there to Mizpeh of Moab, and he said to the king of Moab, "Please let my father and my mother come out with you, until I know what God will do for me."
God, having in the past spoken to the fathers through the prophets at many times and in various ways,
And Samuel said to the people, Jehovah is witness, who gave authority to Moses and Aaron, and who took your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
And the priest saith to them, `Go in peace; over-against even Jehovah, your way in which ye go.'
Do all things without murmurings and reasonings,
Now consider how great this man is, to whom also Abraham the patriarch gave tithes out of the principal things.
Saul heard that David was uncovered, with the men who were with him. Now Saul was sitting in Gibeah, under the tamarisk tree in Ramah, with his spear in his hand, and all his servants were standing around him.
And Delilah taketh thick hordes, new ones, and bindeth him with them, and saith unto him, `Philistines upon thee, Samson;' and the ambush is abiding in an inner chamber, and he breaketh them from off his arms as a thread.
And Judah goeth up, and Jehovah giveth the Canaanite and the Perizzite into their hand, and they smite them in Bezek -- ten thousand men;
for your proving the things that differ, that ye may be pure and offenceless -- to a day of Christ,
Seeing therefore it remains that some enter into it, and those who first received the glad tidings did not enter in on account of not Hearkening to the word,
God hast given into your hands the chiefs of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; what have I been able to do in comparison with you? And when he said this, their feeling about him became kinder.
Never will my hand be stretched out against the man marked with the holy oil; but take the spear which is by his head and the vessel of water, and let us go.
And when they forgat Jehovah their God, he sold them into the hand of Sisera, captain of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought against them.
We have an altar from which those who serve the holy tent have no right to eat.
And now I have heard that thou hast shearers; now thy shepherds who were with us, we hurt them not, neither was there aught missed by them, all the while they were in Carmel.
And the weight of the earlets that he requested, was a thousand seven hundred sicles of gold, besides the ornaments, and jewels, and purple raiment which the kings of Madian were went to use, besides the golden chains that were about the camels' necks.
And all the common people came into a forest, in which there was honey upon the ground.
And David said unto his men, Gird ye on every man his sword. And they girded on every man his sword; and David also girded on his sword: and there went up after David about four hundred men; and two hundred abode by the stuff.
Ehud escaped while they waited, passed beyond the stone idols, and escaped to Seirah.
But now they desire a better, that is to say, a heavenly country. Therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God; for he hath prepared for them a city.
And the Spirit of God doth prosper over Saul, in his hearing these words, and his anger burneth greatly,
for of those beasts whose blood is carried [as sacrifices for sin] into the [holy of] holies by the high priest, of these the bodies are burned outside the camp.
So that we may be like the other nations, and so that our king may be our judge and go out before us to war.
And Jehovah also will deliver Israel with thee into the hands of the Philistines; and to-morrow thou and thy sons shall be with me: and Jehovah will also deliver the army of Israel into the hands of the Philistines.
Let love of the brethren abide.
So they removed the foreign gods from their midst and served Yahweh; and he could no longer bear the misery of Israel.
So Saul said, "Bring here to me the burnt-offering and the fellowship offerings." Then he offered up the burnt-offering.
Then the men of Israel said unto Gideon, Rule thou over us, both thou, and thy son, and thy son's son also: for thou hast delivered us from the hand of Midian.
And the Sidonians, and Amalek, and Maon have oppressed you, and ye cry unto Me, and I save you out of their hand;
And it was so on the morrow, that Saul put the people in three companies; and they came into the midst of the host in the morning watch, and slew the Ammonites until the heat of the day: and it came to pass, that they that remained were scattered, so that two of them were not left together.
And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and they slew the Canaanites that inhabited Zephath, and utterly destroyed it; and they called the name of the city Hormah.
Now then take care to have no wine or strong drink and to take no unclean thing for food;
and they forget Jehovah their God, and He selleth them into the hand of Sisera, head of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fight against them,
His request was for water, she gave him milk; she put butter before him on a fair plate.
But when Israel came up from Egypt, and walked through the wilderness unto the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh;
And his three eldest sons followed Saul to the battle; and the names of his three sons that went to the battle, were Eliab the first-born, and the second Abinadab, and the third Samma.
Now therefore beware and drink no wine nor strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing.
nor the office of the priests to the people: but whosoever had offered a sacrifice, the servant of priest came, while the flesh was in boiling, with a fleshhook of three teeth in his hand,
This is yet more abundantly evident, if after the likeness of Melchizedek there arises another priest,
Then he said: I have sinned: yet honor me now before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and return with me, that I may adore Jehovah thy God.
When they blew the three hundred trumpets, Yahweh set the sword of each one against his neighbor throughout the whole camp, and the camp fled as far as Beth Shittah toward Zererah, up to Abel Meholah, the border by Tabbath.
And over it were the winged ones of glory with their wings covering the mercy-seat; about which it is not possible now to say anything in detail.
And when his armorbearer saw that Saul was dead, he likewise fell upon his sword, and died with him.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, Ishvi, and Malki-Shua; the names of his two daughters were as follows: the name of the first-born was Merab and the younger was Michal.
Samuel said to the people, "It is Yahweh who appointed Moses and Aaron, and that brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
When these went to Micah's house, they took the divine graven image, ephod, the teraphim, and the molten image, and the priest asked them, "What are you doing?"
And never again will there be an old man in your family.
And it came to pass in those days, when there was no king in Israel, that a certain Levite, time on the further side of the hill-country of Ephraim, took him a concubine out of Bethlehem-Judah.
When Samuel was old, he made his sons judges over Israel.
Samson went down to Gaza; there he saw a prostitute and had sex with her.
And it came to pass at the time when Merob the daughter of Saul should have been given to David, that she was given to Hadriel the Molathite to wife.
And Jehovah heard the prayer of Manue, and the angel of Jehovah appeared again to his wife as she was sitting in the field. But Manue her husband was not with her. And when she saw the angel,
Ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel came over against Gibeah, and the battle was severe; but they didn't know that disaster was close to them.
And he had thirty sons; and thirty daughters he sent out of the house, and thirty daughters he took in from abroad for his sons. And he judged Israel seven years.
And there riseth after him Jair the Gileadite, and he judgeth Israel twenty and two years,
And she fixeth with the pin, and saith unto him, `Philistines upon thee, Samson;' and he awaketh out of his sleep, and journeyeth with the pin of the weaving machine, and with the web.
So Israel sent messengers to Sehon king of the Amorrhites, who dwelt in Hesebon, and they said to him: Suffer me to pass through thy land to the river.
But if ye be without chastisement, whereof all are partakers, then are ye bastards, and not sons.
For the word of God is alive, and powerful, and worse than any two-edged sword, swift even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of heart.
When she came to him, she urged him to ask her father for a field. As she dismounted from the donkey, Caleb said to her, "What do you want?"
And the prophet Gad said unto David, Abide not in the hold; depart, and get thee into the land of Judah. Then David departed, and came into the forest of Hareth.
So he confided everything to her, and he said to her, "A razor hast never touched my head, for I am a Nazirite of God from birth. If I am shaved my strength will leave me, and I will become weak, like everyone else.
Jesus Christ the same yesterday, and to-day, and to the ages [to come].
Then David went over to the other side, and stood on the top of the mountain afar off; a great space being between them;
`And, my father, see, yea see the skirt of thine upper robe in my hand; for by cutting off the skirt of thy upper robe, and I have not slain thee, know and see that there is not in my hand evil and transgression, and I have not sinned against thee, and thou art hunting my soul to take it!
Then he also went to Ramah, and came to the great well that is in Secu: and he asked, "Where are Samuel and David?" One said, "Behold, they are at Naioth in Ramah."
And Samuel spoke to all the house of Israel, speaking: If you turn to Jehovah with all your heart, put away the foreign gods from among you, the Baalim and Astaroth: and prepare your hearts unto Jehovah, and serve him only, and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
Jehovah chose new wars, and he himself overthrew the gates of the enemies: a shield and spear was not seen among forty thousand of Israel.
Beware, brothers, lest by any means there be in any one of you an evil heart of disobedience, in falling away from the living God;
and most of the brothers, trusting in Jehovah because of my imprisonment, dare even more to speak the word without fear.
For while the son of Jesse is living on the earth, your position is unsafe and your kingdom is in danger. So make him come here to me, for it is certainly right for him to be put to death.
All chastening seems for the present to be not joyous but grievous; yet afterward it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been exercised thereby.
And David said to his men, Gird ye on every man his sword. And they girded on every man his sword; and David also girded on his sword; and there went up after David about four hundred men; and two hundred abode by the baggage.
and they take their bones, and bury under the tamarisk in Jabesh, and fast seven days.
and the women answer -- those playing, and say, `Saul hath smitten among his thousands, And David among his myriads.'
And Micah said to him, Dwell with me, and be to me a father and a priest, and I will give thee yearly ten silver-pieces, and a suit of garments, and thy victuals. And the Levite went in.
Samuel said, "Though you were little in your own sight, weren't you made the head of the tribes of Israel? Yahweh anointed you king over Israel;
And God was a witness with them, by signs and wonders, and by more than natural authorities, and by his distribution of the Holy Spirit at his pleasure.
And behold, they saw an old man, returning out of the field and from his work in the evening, and he also was of the hill-country of Ephraim, and dwelt as a sojourner in Gabaa; but the men of that land were the children of Jemini.
Gilead beyond the the Jordan did tabernacle, And Dan -- why doth he sojourn ships? Asher hath abode at the haven of the seas, And by his creeks doth tabernacle.
And they laid the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the coffer with the mice of gold and the images of their emerods.
So was the first attack in which Jonathan and his armor bearer killed about twenty men within about half of a furrow in an acre of an open field.
And the people told him after this manner, saying, So shall it be done to the man that smites him.
Therefore ought we more diligently to observe the things which we have heard, lest by any means we should let them slipped.
So they sent and got together all the lords of the Philistines, and they said, Send away the ark of the God of Israel, and let it go back to itself place, so that it may not be the cause of death to us and to our people; for there was a great fear of death through all the town; the hand of God was very hard on them there.
So Delilah took new ropes and tied him up with them, and she said to him, "The Philistines are upon you, Samson!" (The ambush was sitting in an inner room.) But he snapped them from his arms like thread.
And Saul said to him: Young man, of what family art thou? And David said: I am the son of thy servant Isai the Bethlehemite.
and now, this the thing which we do to Gibeah -- against it by lot!
He chooseth new gods, Then war at the gates! A shield is not seen -- and a spear Among forty thousand in Israel.
and above it cherubim of glory overshadowing the mercy-seat, of which things we can't speak now in detail.
And David said to him, Will you take me down to this band? And he said, If you give me your oath that you will not put me to death or give me up to my master, I will take you to them.
although I could have confidence in the flesh. If anyone else thinks to put confidence in the flesh, I can do so more:
He was asked by him whence he came. And he answered: I am a Levite of Beth-lehem Joda, and I am going to dwell where I can, and where I shall find a place to my advantage.
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he sold him into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the children of Ammon.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.
For the law, possessing a shadow of the good things that are about to come, not the form of things itself, is never able year by year by means of the same sacrifices which they offer without interruption to make perfect those who draw near.
For you know that also afterwards, when he wanted to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, because he did not find an occasion for repentance, although he sought it with tears.
By faith, concerning coming things, Isaac did bless Jacob and Esau:
And all the men of Shechem gathered together, and all the house of Millo, on the way and went, and made Abimelech king, by the plain of the pillar that was in Shechem.
Now there was a appointed sign between the men of Israel and the ambush, that they should make a thick column of smoke rise up out of the city.
And Gedeon said to God: If thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said,
And David took all the flocks and the herds, they drove before the other cattle, and said, This is David's spoil.
whence also he is able to save to the very end, those coming through him unto God -- ever living to make intercession for them.
circumcised on the eighth day, from the nation of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew born from Hebrews, according to the law a Pharisee,
And the priest giveth to him the holy thing, for there was no bread there except the bread of the Presence which is turned aside from the presence of Jehovah to put hot bread in the day of itself being taken away.
And they said, If ye send away the ark of the God of Israel, send it not empty; ye must at any rate return him a trespass-offering: then ye shall be healed, and it shall be known to you why his hand is not journeyed from you.
The wadi torrent of Kishion swept them away, the raging wadi torrent, the wadi torrent of Kishon. March on, my soul, with strength!
and they have asked of thee of welfare, and given to thee two loaves, and thou hast received from their hand.
Then Saul said to his servant, "Well said. Come, let us go." So they went to the city where the man of God was.
`When Jacob hath come in to Egypt, and your fathers cry unto Jehovah, then even Jehovah, sendeth Moses and Aaron, and they bring out your fathers from Egypt, and cause them to dwell in this place,
So now Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath dispossessed the Amorites from before his people Israel, and shouldest thou possess it?
Now when it was evening they saw an old man coming back from his work in the field; he was from the hill-country of Ephraim and was living in the hill: but the men of the place were Benjamites.
And it shall come to pass, when Jehovah shall do to my lord according to all the good that he hast spoken concerning thee, and shall appoint thee over Israel,
And even Jehovah, sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor; and the prince of his army was Sisera, who dwelt in Harosheth-Goim.
David cried to the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, speaking: Wilt thou not answer, Abner? And Abner answering, said: Who art thou, that criest, and disturbest the king?
If he be able to fight with me, and to kill me, then will we be your servants: but if I prevail against him, and kill him, then shall ye be our servants, and serve us.
But now this is the thing which we will do to Gibeah: we will go up against it by lot;
She said, "Oh, my lord, as your soul lives, my lord, I am woman who stood by you here, praying to Yahweh.
and like a robe you will roll them up, and like a garment they will be changed; but you are the same, and your years will not run out."
And when they were come to the land of Suph, Saul said to the servant that was with him: Come, let us return, lest by any means my father forget the asses, and be concerned for us.
And he taketh his staff in his hand, and chooseth for him five smooth stones from the brook, and putteth them in the shepherds' habiliments that he hath, even in the wallet, and his sling in his hand, and he draweth nigh unto the Philistine.
The angel of Yahweh did not appear again to Manoah and his wife, and then Manoah knew that he was a messenger of Yahweh.
For you had pity on those who were in prison, and had joy in the loss of your property, in the knowledge that you still had a better property and one which you would keep for ever.
For it is God who is the cause of your desires and of your acts, for his good pleasure.
And he sent messengers throughout Manasseh, and they also were gathered after him; and he sent messengers to Asher, and to Zebulun, and to Naphtali: and they came up to meet them.
And so then, do not let my blood fall to the ground away from the presence of Yahweh, for the king of Israel hast gone out to seek a single flea, as one hunts a partridge that in the mountains."
So David went, he and the six hundred men that were with him, and they came to the torrent Besor; and those that were left stayed behind.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and put out of their minds Jehovah their God, and became servants to the Baals and the Astartes.
And every priest indeed standeth daily ministering, and often offering the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins.
And she said to him, "Give me a gift; you have given me the land of the Negev, and give me also a spring of water." And Caleb gave to her the upper and lower spring, So
And the Spirit of Jehovah came mightily upon him, and he rent him as he would have rent a kid, and he had nothing in his hand; but he told not his father or his mother what he had done.
By faith Joseph, when he was dying, made mention of the going out of the children of Israel; and gave commandment concerning his bones.
Now Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty man of valor, and he was the son of a harlot; and Gilead begat Jephthah.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
And all the men of Israel were gathered to the city as one body united.
and Jehovah calleth unto Samuel, and he saith, `Here I.'
Go and cry unto the gods on which ye have fixed, O God; they -- they save you in the time of your adversity.'
and the king sitteth on his throne, as time by time, on a seat by the wall, and Jonathan riseth, and Abner sitteth at the side of Saul, and David's place is looked after.
And when I saw that ye would not save me, I put my life in my hand, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah gave them into my hand. Why then are ye come up to me this day, to fight against me?
And the people speak to him according to this word, saying, `Thus it is done to the man who smiteth him.'
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah gave them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
Gaal spoke again and said, "Behold, people are coming down by the middle of the land, and one company comes by the way of the oak of Meonenim."
And they said unto him, Hold thy peace, lay thy hand upon thy mouth, and go with us, and be to us a father and a priest: is it better for thee to be a priest unto the house of one man, or that thou be a priest unto a tribe and a family in Israel?
And the day after the evil spirit from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of his house. And David played with his hand as at other times. And Saul held a spear in his hand,
And Jehovah said, Judah is to go up: see, I have given the land into his hands.
And the children of Benjamin did so, and took them wives, according to their number, of them that danced, whom they caught: and they went and returned unto their inheritance, and repaired the cities, and dwelt in them.
However the king of the children of Ammon didn't listen to the words of Jephthah which he sent him.
That I may have knowledge of him, and of the power of his coming back from the dead, and a part with him in his pains, becoming like him in his death;
though he were Son, he learned obedience from the things which he suffered;
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah because of Midian,
And the station of the Philistines goeth out unto the passage of Michmash.
having therefore, brothers, boldness to enter into the holy place by the blood of Jesus,
But early in the morning when Nabal had digested his wine, his wife told him these words, and his heart died within him, and he became as a stone.
Then Samuel said, "Bring Agag the king of Amalek out to me!" Agag came to him confidently, for Agag thought, "Surely the bitterness of death is over."
And it shall be in the morning when the sun is up, thou shalt rise early, and fall upon the city; and behold, he and the people that is with him shall come out against thee, and thou shalt do with him as thou shalt find occasion.
And Jonathan climbed up upon his hands and upon his feet, and his armorbearer after him: and they fell before Jonathan; and his armorbearer slew after him.
And the child Samuel grew on, and was in favor both with Jehovah, and also with men.
Blessings be on Jael, more than on all women! Blessings greater than on any in the tents!
And she sent and called Barac the son of Abinoem out of Cedes in Nephtali: and she said to him: Jehovah, the God of Israel hath commanded thee: Go, and lead an army to mount Thabor, and thou shalt take with thee ten thousand fighting men of the children of Nephtali, and of the children of Zabulon:
But of doing good and communicating [of your substance] be not forgetful, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.
And Samson said unto them, Though ye have done this, yet will I be avenged of you, and after that I will cease.
And the young men of David come in, and speak unto Nabal according to all these words, in the name of David -- and rest.
But his concubine felt repugnance toward him, and she left him and went to her father's house, to Beth-lehem in Judah: she was there some four months.
But the men would not give ear to him: so the man took his woman and sent her out to them; and they took her by force, using her for their pleasure all night till the morning; and when dawn came they let her go.
So the five men going on came to Lais: and they saw how the people dwelt therein without any fear, according to the custom of the Sidonians; rid and easy, having no man at all to oppose them, being very rich, and living separated, at a distance from Sidon and from all men.
But I will not say anything about my needs, for I am able, wherever I am, to be dependent on myself.
And even Jehovah, addeth to call Samuel the third time, and he riseth and goeth unto Eli, and saith, `Here I, for thou hast called for me;' and Eli understandeth that even Jehovah, is calling to the youth.
Samuel said to Saul, "Yahweh sent me to anoint you to be king over his people, over Israel. Now therefore listen to the voice of Yahweh's words.
And Samuel said, What then this bleating of sheep in mine ears, and the lowing of oxen which I hear?
The cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron even to Gath; and Israel recovered itself border out of the hand of the Philistines. There was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
The princes of the Philistines were passing on according to hundreds and thousands, David and his men passing on at the rear with Achish.
By him therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually, that is, the fruit of our lips giving thanks to his name.
And Saul was yet the more afraid of David; and Saul became David's enemy continually.
the sound of the trumpet, and the voice of words; which those who heard it asked for that not one more word should be spoken to them,
And the men did so, and took two milch cattle, and tied them to the cart, and shut up their calves at home.
David answered, "Behold the spear, O king! Then let one of the young men come over and get it.
For the rest, brethren, whatsoever things true, whatsoever things noble, whatsoever things just, whatsoever things pure, whatsoever things amiable, whatsoever things of good report; if [there be] any your virtue and if any praise, think on these things.
And truly, if they had been mindful of that land from whence they came out, they might have had opportunity to have returned.
Then the tribes of Israel sent men throughout all the tribes of Benjamin, saying, "What is this wickedness that happened among you?
I will shoot three arrows on itself side, as though I shot at a mark.
They that strive with even Jehovah, shall be broken in pieces; in the heavens will he thunder upon them. even Jehovah, will judge the ends of the earth; and he will give strength unto his king, and exalt the horn of his anointed.
And he caused the tribe of Benjamin to come near by their families, and the family of Matri was taken; and Saul the son of Kish was taken. And they sought him, but he was not to be found.
And the children of Israel cried to Jehovah, and even Jehovah, raised them up a saviour, Ehud the son of Gera, the Benjaminite, a man left-handed. And by him the children of Israel sent a gift to Eglon king of Moab.
In those days there was no king in Israel. In those days the tribe of the Danites sought an inheritance to dwell in; to that day, their inheritance had not fallen to them among the tribes of Israel.
"The vine said to them, 'Should I leave my new wine, which cheers God and man, and go to wave back and forth over the trees?'
And he answered them: I Because Israel took away my land when he came up out of Egypt, from the confines of the Arnon unto the Jaboc and the the Jordan: now therefore restore the same peaceably to me.
And gathering together an army, he defeated Amalec, and delivered Israel from the hand of them that despoil them.
And the men of Israel, that were beyond the lowland, and beyond the the Jordan, seeing that the Israelites were fled, and that Saul was dead, and his sons, forsook their cities, and fled; and the Philistines came, and dwelt there.
And he swore again to David. And David said: Thy father certainly knoweth that I have found favor in thy sight, and he will say: Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved. But truly as Jehovah liveth, and thy soul liveth, there is but one step as I may say) between me and death.
Thy servant smote both the lion and the bear; and this uncircumcised Philistine shall be as one of them, because he hast defied the armies of the living God.
And we desire that every one of you do show the same diligence to the full assurance of hope unto the end:
Then Samuel, after hearing all the people had to say, went and gave account of it to Jehovah.
He used to go on the vault from year to year. He went around Beth-el, Gilgal, and Mizpah, and he judged Israel in all these places.
All these died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them from afar off and embraced , and confessed that they were strangers and sojourners on the earth.
for, doubtless, of messengers it doth not lay away, but of seed of Abraham it layeth stronghold;
And David bought up, and he and his men went and struck down two hundred men of the Philistines. Then David brought their foreskins, and they presented the full number to become king's son-in-law. Then Saul gave him Michal his daughter as his wife.
And the Philistine draweth nigh, morning and evening, and stationeth himself forty days.
And Samson's wife wept before him, and said, Thou dost but hate me, and lovest me not: thou hast put forth a riddle unto the children of my people, and hast not told it me. And he said unto her, Behold, I have not told it my father nor my mother, and shall I tell it thee?
There is no creature that is hidden from his sight, but all things are naked and laid open before the eyes of him to whom we must give an account.
The servants of Saul told him, saying, "David spoke like this."
for, even Jehovah, liveth, who is saving Israel: surely if it be in Jonathan my son, surely he doth certainly die;' and none is answering him out of all the people.
Why did you not listen to the voice of Yahweh and fall with shouting on the plunder? You have done evil in the sight of Yahweh!"
Yahweh's angel appeared to the woman, and said to her, "See now, you are barren and childless; but you shall conceive, and bear a son.
But Sihon trusted not Israel to pass through his border: but Sihon gathered all his people together, and encamped in Jahaz; and fought against Israel.
She said to him, "My father, you made an oath to Yahweh. Do to me according to what hast gone out from your mouth, since Yahweh gave vengeance to you against your enemies, the Ammonites."
And the children of Benjamin did not drive out the Jebusites that inhabited Jerusalem; but the Jebusites dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
Wherefore I was grieved with that generation, and said, They do always err in their heart; and they have not known my ways.
And he said to them, Follow after me, for even Jehovah, hast delivered your enemies the Moabites into your hand. And they went down after him, and took the fords of the Jordan toward Moab, and suffered no one to pass over.
By a new and living way, which he hath consecrated for us, through the veil, that is to say, his flesh;
Then he went to his father's house at Ophrah, and put his brothers, the seventy sons of Jerubbaal, to death on the same stone; however, Jotham, the youngest, kept himself safe by going away to secret.
Revile ye Meroz, said the angel of Jehovah, curse ye bitterly the inhabitants thereof; because they came not to the help of Jehovah, to the help of Jehovah against the mighty.
and Samuel saith, `Bring ye nigh unto me Agag king of Amalek,' and Agag cometh unto him daintily, and Agag saith, `Surely the bitterness of death hath turned aside.'
Her rival provoked her severely, to irritate her, because Yahweh had shut up her womb.
By the which will we are sanctified through the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
David said to Jonathan, "Behold, tomorrow is the new moon, and I should not fail to dine with the king; but let me go, that I may hide myself in the field to the third day at evening.
and to those in Hormah, and to those in Chor-ashan, and to those in Athach,
And when Gaal saw the people, he said to Zebul: Behold, a multitude cometh down from the mountains. And he answered him: Thou seest the shadows of the mountains as if they were the heads of men, and this is thy mistake.
And he turned a little aside from him to another: and said the same word. And the people answered him as beforetime.
And Saul said to David, Here is my oldest daughter Merab, whom I will give you for your wife: only be strong for me, fighting in the Lord's wars. For Saul said, Let it not be through me that his fate comes to him, but through the Philistines.
And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus.
So Saul returned from pursuing David, and went against the Philistines. Therefore they called that place Selah Hammahlekoth.
So the people sent to Shiloh and got the ark of the agreement of Jehovah of hosts whose resting-place is between the winged ones: and Hophni and Phinehas, the two sons of Eli, were there with the ark of God's agreement.
And they said to him, Hold thy peace, lay thy hand upon thy mouth, and go with us, and be to us a father and a priest. Is it better for thee to be a priest for the house of one man, or to be priest for a tribe and a family in Israel?
The children of Israel said, "Who is there among all the tribes of Israel who didn't come up in the assembly to Yahweh?" For they had made a great oath concerning him who didn't come up to Yahweh to Mizpah, saying, "He shall surely be put to death."
And Israel said to Yahweh, "We have sinned; do to us accordingly as you see fit; only please deliver us this day."
For the rest, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever modest, whatsoever just, whatsoever holy, whatsoever lovely, whatsoever of good fame, if there be any virtue, if any praise of instruction, think on these things.
And they said to the men of Benjamin, Go into the vine-gardens, waiting there secretly,
But to do good and to communicate forget not: for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.
Count not thy handmaid for one of the daughters of Belial: for out of the abundance of my sorrow and grief have I spoken till now.
and he stabbed it into the pan, or kettle, or cauldron, or pot. The priest took all that fork brought up for himself. So they did in Shiloh to all Israel who came there.
And thou shalt see thy rival in the temple, in all the prosperity of Israel, and there shall not be an old man in thy house for ever.
When Abigail saw David, she hurried and got off of her donkey, and fell before David on her face, and bowed herself to the ground.
And the people come in to Beth-El, and sit there till the evening before God, and lift up their voice, and weep -- a great weeping,
Now the children of Israel had given a sign to them, whom they had laid in ambushes, that after they had taken the city, they should make a fire: that by the smoke rising on high, they might show that the city was taken.
For we do not have a high priest who is not able to sympathize with our weaknesses, but who hast been tempted in all things in the same way, without sin.
And Samuel taketh a stone, and setteth between Mizpeh and Shen, and calleth itself name Eben-Ezer, saying, `Hitherto hath Jehovah helped us.'
And Saul riseth, and goeth down unto the wilderness of Ziph, and with him three thousand men, chosen ones of Israel, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
And Manoah said, Now let thy words come to pass. How shall we order the child, and how shall we do unto him?
His father went down to the woman, and Samson prepared there a feast, as young men were accustomed to doing this.
Awake, awake, Deborah; Awake, awake, utter a song; Arise, Barak, and take captive thy captivity, Son of Abinoam.
And the king of the children of Ammon said to Jephthah's messengers, "Because Israel took my land from the the Arnon up to the Jabbok and the the Jordan when they came up from Egypt; so then, restore it peacefully."
And when they gat up early on the morning after, Dagon had come down to the earth on his face before the ark of Jehovah; and his head and his hands were broken off on the doorstep; only the base was in itself place.
Go now, and take more steps, Even and see where he is living: for they say that he is expert in deceit.
And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into the parlour, and made them sit in the chiefest place among them that were bidden, that were about thirty persons.
And Saul chose him three thousand men of Israel: and two thousand were with Saul in Machmas, and in mount Beth-el; and a thousand with Jonathan in Gabaa of Benjamin, and the rest of the people he sent back every man to their dwellings.
And the staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam, and the head of his spear weighed six hundred sicles of iron: and his armorbearer went before him.
Saul was told that David had come to Keilah. Saul said, "God hast delivered him into my hand; for he is shut in by entering into a village that hast gates and bars."
And I will bring unto thee in the place of the torrent Cison, Sisara the captain of Jabin's army, and his chariots, and all his multitude, and will deliver them into thy hand.
And they gave him seventy shekels of silver from the house of Baal-berith, with which Abimelech bought the help of a number of uncontrolled and good-for-nothing persons.
Again, Jesse made seven of his sons to pass before Samuel. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Jehovah hath not chosen these.
Then the troops took the plunder: they took sheep and cattle and calves and slaughtered them on the ground and the troops ate them all with the blood.
Is not this David, to whom they sing in their dances, speaking: Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
being filled with the fruit of righteousness, that through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
Then Jonathan said to David, "Yahweh the God of Israel is my witness that I will question my father by this time the day after tomorrow. And look, if he is well disposed toward you, will I not send word to you and disclose it to you?
And if to live in the flesh to me a fruit of work, then what shall I choose? I know not;
And the angel of Jehovah said to him, How is it that thou askest after my name, seeing it is wonderful?
And David said to Abishai, Destroy him not; for who can stretch forth his hand against Jehovah's anointed, and be guiltless?
He scraped it out into his hands, and he went on, eating it as he went. And he went to his father and mother and gave some to them, and they ate it. But he did not tell them that he had scraped the honey from the body of the lion.
and also all that generation have been gathered unto their fathers, and another generation riseth after them who have not known Jehovah, and even the work which He hath done to Israel.
And he sent to Abimelech at Arumah, saying, See, Gaal, the son of Ebed, and his brothers have come to Shechem, and they are working up the village against you.
and that most of the brothers in Jehovah, being confident through my bonds, are more abundantly bold to speak the word of God without fear.
And David riseth, and passeth over, he and six hundred men who with him, unto Achish son of Maoch king of Gath;
Samuel arose, and went from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin. Saul numbered the people who were present with him, about six hundred men.
And though by this time it would be right for you to be teachers, you still have need of someone to give you teaching about the first simple rules of God's revelation; you have become like babies who have need of milk, and not of solid food.
And this shall be the sign to thee, that shall come upon thy two sons, Ophni and Phinees: In one day they shall both of them die.
He will take one tenth of your flocks; and you will be his servants.
And he sent messengers to the king of Edom, speaking: Suffer me to pass through thy land. But he would not condescend to his request. He sent also to the king of Moab, who likewise refused to give him passage. He abode therefore in Cades,
Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together and came to Samuel to Ramah.
And Samson's wife wept before him, and said, Thou dost but hate me, and lovest me not. Thou hast propounded the riddle to the children of my people, and hast not explained it to me. And he said to her, Behold, I have not explained it to my father nor my mother, and shall I explain it to thee?
For Christ is not entered into the holy places made with hands, which are the The figures of the true; but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us:
And Samuel saith unto the people, `Jehovah -- He who made Moses and Aaron, and who brought up your fathers out of the land of Egypt!
and it hath been when their fathers or their brethren come in to plead unto us, that we have said unto them, Grace us them, for we have not taken each his wife in battle, for ye -- ye have not given to them at this time ye are guilty.'
Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and encamped in the valley of Elah, and set the battle in array against the Philistines.
So the Philistines were overcome, and did not come into the country of Israel again: and all the days of Samuel the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines.
And others experienced mocking and flogging, and in addition bonds and imprisonment.
If he is able to fight with me and kill me, then will we be your servants; but if I prevail against him and kill him, then you will be our servants and serve us."
Do not go away till I come with my offering and put it before you. And he said, I will not go away before you come back.
Why do you despise my sacrifice and my offering which I commanded for my dwelling-place, while you honored your sons more than me by making yourselves fat from the best of all the offerings of my people Israel?
But David said: You shall not do so, my brethren, with these things, which Jehovah hath given us, who hath kept us, and hath delivered the robbers that invaded us into our hands.
So David struck the land and did not leave a man or a woman alive; he took the sheep, the cattle, the donkeys, the camels, and the clothing. Then he returned and came to Achish.
But to rely on in the flesh is more necessary for your sake.
And it came to pass, when Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled to David to Keilah, he came down with an ephod in his hand.
He gathered the children of Ammon and Amalek to himself; and he went and struck Israel, and they possessed the city of palm-trees.
And she sendeth and calleth for Barak son of Abinoam, out of Kedesh-Naphtali, and saith unto him, `Hath not Jehovah, the God of Israel, commanded? go, and thou hast drawn towards mount Tabor, and hast taken with thee ten thousand men, out of the sons of Naphtali, and out of the sons of Zebulun,
And the ark of Jehovah was in the country of the Philistines seven months.
Then Jesse said to his son David, "Please take for your brothers an ephah of this roasted grain and these ten loaves of bread, and bring them quickly to the camp for your brothers.
And David sweareth to Saul, and Saul goeth unto his house, and David and his men have gone up unto the fortress.
and Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it in those days), saying, Shall I yet again go out to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I cease? And Jehovah said, Go up; for to-morrow I will give them into thy hand.
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armor bearer, and all his men, that same day together.
For if the word spoken through angels proved steadfast, and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense;
and that I may be found in him, not having my righteousness, which [would be] on the principle of law, but that which is by faith of Christ, the righteousness which of God through faith,
When these went into Micah's house, and took the engraved image, the ephod, the teraphim, and the molten image, the priest said to them, "What are you doing?"
Gilead lived beyond the Jordan. Why did Dan remain in ships? Asher still sat at the haven of the sea, and lived by his creeks.
In these days hath spoken to us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the world.
Anna answering, said: Not so, my lord: for I am an exceeding unhappy woman, and have drunk neither wine nor any strong drink, but I have poured out my soul before Jehovah.
And you shall cry out in that day from the face of the king, whom you have chosen to yourselves. and Jehovah will not hear you in that day, because you desired unto yourselves a king.
and him who was made some little less than messengers we see -- Jesus -- because of the suffering of death, with glory and honor having been crowned, that by the grace of God for every one he might taste of death.
And the servants of Saul told him, speaking: Such words as these hath David spoken.
And David said to Abigail, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who sent thee this day to meet me:
David learned of Yahweh, saying, "If I pursue after this troop, will I overtake them?" He answered him, "Pursue; for you will surely overtake them, and will without fail recover all."
And therefore he is the mediator of the new covenant; that by means of his death, for the redemption of those transgressions, that were under the former testament, they that are called may receive the promise of eternal inheritance.
The family of the Danites set out from Zorah and Eshtaol, with six hundred men armed with weapons of war.
And Delilah saw that he had told her all his heart, and she sent and called for the lords of the Philistines, saying, Come up this time, for he hast told me all his heart. And the lords of the Philistines came up to her, and brought the money in their hand.
each not to your own look ye, but each also to the things of others.
Samuel said to all Israel, "Behold, I have listened to your voice in all that you said to me, and have made a king over you.
And Saul said unto Samuel, Yea, I have obeyed the voice of Jehovah, and have gone the way which Jehovah sent me, and have brought Agag the king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed the Amalekites.
But when the flame began to arise up out of the city with a pillar of smoke, the Benjamites looked behind them, and, behold, the flame of the city ascended up to heaven.
So Micah appointed the Levite, and the young man became a priest for him; and he was in the house of Micah.
and they cut off his head, and strip off his weapons, and send into the land of the Philistines round about, to proclaim tidings the house of their idols, and the people;
And Jael went out to meet Sisera, and said to him, Turn in, my lord, turn in to me; fear not. And he turned in to her, into the tent, and she covered him with the quilt.
And Samuel saith unto all the people, `Have ye seen him on whom Jehovah hath fixed, for there is none like him among all the people?' And all the people shout, and say, `Let the king live!'
So I have not sinned against thee, but it is thou who doest me wrong in making war against me. Jehovah, the Judge, be judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon!
And these are the golden emerods which the Philistines returned for a trespass-offering unto Jehovah; for Ashdod, one, for Azzah one, for Askelon one, for Gath one, for Ekron one;
For although by this time you should be teachers, you again need to have someone teach you the rudiments of the first principles of the revelations of God. You have come to need milk, and not solid food.
And then let themselves be turned away, it is not possible for their hearts to be made new a second time, because they themselves put the Son of God on the cross again, openly shaming him.
For this one is considered worthy of greater glory than Moses, inasmuch as the one who builds it hast greater honor than the house.
for yet a very very little, He who is coming will come, and will not tarry;
So David and the six hundred men who were with him went over to Achish, the son of Maoch, king of Gath.
And Jonathan said to the young man that bore his armor, Come, and let us go over to the garrison of these their uncircumcision: perhaps even Jehovah, will work for us; for there is no restraint to even Jehovah, to save by many or by few.
And she said unto her father, Let this thing be done for me: let me alone two months, that I may go up and down upon the mountains, and bewail my virginity; I and my fellows.
Then David and the people who were with him gave themselves up to weeping till they were able to go on weeping no longer.
They were stoned, they were sawn asunder, were tempted, were slain with the sword: they wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins; being destitute, afflicted, tormented;
So Samuel spoke all the words of Yahweh to the people who were requesting a king from him.
Wherefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel: I said indeed that thy house, and the house of thy father should minister in my sight, for ever. But now saith Jehovah: Far be this from me: but whosoever shall glorify me, him will I glorify: but they that despise me, shall be despised.
And he goeth down and speaketh to the woman, and she is right in the eyes of Samson;
Then said Samuel, Bring ye hither to me Agag the king of the Amalekites. And Agag came unto him delicately. And Agag said, Surely the bitterness of death is passed away.
And they say one to another, `Who hath done this thing?' and they inquire and seek, and they say, `Gideon son of Joash hath done this thing.'
and they declare to Jotham, and he goeth and standeth on the top of mount Gerizim, and lifteth up his voice, and calleth, and saith to them, `Hearken unto me, O masters of Shechem, and God doth hearken unto you:
Now the Bethsamites were reaping wheat in the valley; and lifting up their eyes they saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.
Jehovah therefore be judge, and judge between me and thee, and see, and plead my cause, and deliver me out of thy hand.
Ye that ride on white she-asses, ye that sit on carpets, and ye that walk by the way, consider.
And when this was told Saul, he sent other messengers: but they also prophesied. And again Saul sent messengers the third time: and they prophesied also. And Saul being exceedingly angry,
and in this place again, "They will not enter into my rest."
But if they shall say: Come up to us: let us go up, because Jehovah hath delivered them into our hands, this shall be the sign unto us.
and bring these ten cheeses to the captain of their thousand, and see how your brothers are doing, and bring back news."
And the children of Dan were forced into the hill-country by the Amorites, who would not let them come down into the valley;
The five men, that before had been sent to spy out the land of Lais, said to the rest of their brethren: You know that in these houses there is an ephod, and theraphim, and a engravings and a molten god; see what you are pleased to do.
When they gat up early in the morning the next day, there was Dagon fallen again with his face to the ground before the ark of Yahweh! The head of Dagon and the palms of his two hands were cut off, lying at the threshold; only the body of Dagon was left.
And the children of Israel said to Samuel, Go on crying to Jehovah our God for us to make us safe from the hands of the Philistines.
For if a man finds his enemy, will he let him go away unharmed? Therefore may Yahweh reward you good for that which you have done to me today.
And therefore we also having so great a cloud of witnesses over our head, laying aside every weight and sin which surrounds us, let us run by patience to the fight proposed to us:
And likewise he sprinkled both the tabernacle and all the utensils of service with the blood.
And when they came thither to the hill, behold, a company of prophets met him; and the Spirit of God came upon him, and he prophesied among them.
Do you not possess what Chemosh your god gave you to possess? Whosoever Yahweh our God hast driven out before us, we will possess it.
for even owing to be teachers, because of the time, again ye have need that one teach you what the rudiments of the beginning of the oracles of God, and ye have become having need of milk, and not of strong food,
And Nahash the Ammonite said to them, On this will I treat with you, that I thrust out all your right eyes, and lay it for a reproach upon all Israel.
And the army of the Philistines went out in order to advance further in Machmas.
And Barak called Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh; and he went up with ten thousand men at his feet: and Deborah went up with him.
She fell at his feet and said, "On me, my lord, be the guilt! Please let your female servant speak to you personally! Hear the words of your female servant!
They told Sisera that Barak the son of Abinoam was gone up to Mount Tabor.
Whereupon neither was the first indeed dedicated without blood.
For where a last will and covenant is, there must of necessities be the death of him who made it.
and Zebab and Zalmunna flee, and he pursueth after them, and captureth the two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna, and all the camp he hath caused to shudder.
Inasmuch as it is appointed for men to die once, and after this, justice,
He will take your daughters to be perfumers, to be cooks, and to be bakers.
And now beware, I pray thee, and drink not wine nor strong drink, and eat nothing unclean.
And Gideon said unto God, Let not thine anger be hot against me, and I will speak but this once: let me prove, I pray thee, but this once with the fleece; let it now be dry only upon the fleece, and upon all the ground let there be dew.
One rock stood out towards the north over against Machmas, and the other to the south over against Gabaa.
Yahweh raised up judges, who saved them out of the hand of those who plundered them.
And Abimelech, and the companies that were with him, rushed forward, and stood at the entrance of the gate of the city; and two of the companies ran upon all that were in the fields, and slew them.
What then? only that in every way, falsely or truly, the preaching of Christ goes on; and in this I am glad, and will be glad.
Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning; and Samuel was told, saying, "Saul came to Carmel, and behold, he set up a monument for himself, and turned, and passed on, and went down to Gilgal."
And the Philistine said to David, Am I a dog, that thou comest to me with staves? And the Philistine cursed David by his gods.
And the sons of the Kenite, father-in-law of Moses, have gone up out of the city of palms with the sons of Judah the wilderness of Judah, which in the south of Arad, and they go and dwell with the people.
My prayer was for this child; and Jehovah hast given him to me in answer to my request:
His concubine who was in Shechem also bore for him a son, and he named him Abimelech.
But I beseech you, brethren, bear the word of exhortation, for it is but in few words that I have written unto you.
And only the stump of Dagon remained in itself place. For this cause neither the priests of Dagon, nor any that go into the temple tread on the threshold of Dagon in Azotus unto this day.
So David prevailed over the Philistine with a sling and with a stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him; but there was no sword in the hand of David.
Yet a man is risen to pursue thee, and to seek thy soul; But the soul of my lord shall be bound in the bundle of life with Jehovah thy God; and the souls of thine enemies, them shall he sling out, as out of the middle of a sling.
And Gaal son of Ebed saith, `Who Abimelech, and who Shechem, that we serve him? is not son of Jerubbaal? and Zebul his commander? Serve ye the men of Hamor father of Shechem, and wherefore do we serve him -- we?
So David's young men, turning away, went back and gave him a account of everything he had said.
And the children of Israel said to Samuel, cease not to cry unto Jehovah our God for us, that he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and forgat Jehovah their God, and served the Baalim and the groves.
and the house of Joseph cause to spy about Beth-El (and the name of the city formerly is Luz),
David also arose afterwards, and went out of the cave, and cried after Saul, saying, My lord the king! And when Saul looked behind him, David bowed with his face to the earth, and did obeisance.
So now Jehovah, the God of Israel, hast taken away their land from the Amorites and given it to his people Israel; are you then to have it?
So they went on their way; and the sun went down when they were near Gibeah in the land of Benjamin.
And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said to him, May the blessing of Jehovah be with you; I have done what was established of Jehovah.
But the boy Samuel continued to grow in stature and in favor with Yahweh and with the people.
And the woman had in the house a young cow, made fat for food; and she put it to death straight away; and she took meal and got it mixed and made unleavened bread;
And rising up early the next day, they built an altar: and offered there holocausts, and victims of peace, and they said:
through him, then, we may offer up a sacrifice of praise always to God, that is, the fruit of lips, giving thanks to His name;
Therefore, when he came into the world, he said, "Sacrifice and offering you did not want, but a body you prepared for me;
And Saul said nothing that day; for he thought, Something hast befallen , that he is not clean: surely he is not clean.
And also the Strength of Israel will not lie nor regret it for he is not a man, that he should repent.
(for who was it, who, having heard, provoked? but [was it] not all who came out of Egypt with Moses?
And the women answered one another as they played, and said, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands.
And Jephthah said to them, I and my people were in danger, and the children of Ammon were very cruel to us, and when I sent for you, you gave me no help against them.
being designated by God a high priest according to the order of Melchizedek.
Therefore now return, and go in peace, that you not displease the lords of the Philistines."
Now Saul had given Michal his daughter, David's wife, to Palti the son of Laish, who was of Gallim.
Only go in the fear of Jehovah, and be his true servants with all your heart, keeping in mind what great things he hast done for you.
and cometh in unto his house, and taketh the knife, and layeth hold on his concubine, and cutteth her in pieces to her bones -- into twelve pieces, and sendeth her into all the border of Israel.
And David said to Abiathar the priest, Ahimelech's son, Bring near to me, I pray thee, the ephod. And Abiathar brought the ephod near to David.
Then Achish sent for David and said to him, By the living Lord, you are upright, and everything you have done with me in the army hast been pleasing to me: I have seen no evil in you from the day when you came to me till now: but still, the lords are not pleased with you.
And every bad and worthless man, of the men who have gone with David, answereth, yea, they say, `Because that they have not gone with us we do not give to them of the spoil which we have delivered, except each his wife and his children, and they lead away and go.
After whom did the king of Israel go out? After whom are you pursuing? After a dead dog? After one flea?
Feeling that it was better to undergo pain with the people of God, than for a short time to have a taste of the pleasures of sin;
And David and his men were living with Achish at Gath; every man had his family with him, and David had his two wives, Ahinoam of Jezreel, and Abigail of Carmel, who had been the wife of Nabal.
And Samuel said to Saul, Jehovah sent me to put the holy oil on you and to make you king over his people, over Israel; so give ear now to the words of Jehovah.
And as for thy asses that were lost three days ago, set not thy mind on them; for they are found. And on whom is all the desire of Israel? Is it not on thee, and on all thy father's house?
And it came to pass at the end of two months, that she returned unto her father, who did with her according to his vow which he had vowed: and she knew no man. And it was a custom in Israel,
So Manoah took the young goat with itself meal thereof, offering it on the rock to Jehovah, who did foreign things.
And Saul encamped in Gabaa Hachila, who was over against the wilderness in the way; and David abode in the wilderness. And seeing that Saul was come after him into the wilderness,
And David said to the Philistine, Thou comest to me with sword, and with spear, and with javelin; but I come to thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied.
Now give up those good-for-nothing persons in Gibeah so that we may put them to death, clearing away the evil from Israel. But the children of Benjamin would not give ear to the voice of their brothers, the children of Israel.
And Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him, and let none of his words fall to the ground.
So David rebuked his men with the words and did not know them to rise against Saul. And Saul got up from the cave, and he went on his way.
And he said to them: Follow me; for Jehovah hath delivered our enemies the Moabites into our hands. And they went down after him, and seized upon the fords of the Jordan, that are in the way to Moab: and they suffered no man to pass over.
And David came to Saul, waiting before him; and he became very dear to Saul, who made him his servant, giving him the care of his arms.
The boy left, and then David bought up from the south side, and he fell on his face to the ground and bowed three times. And they kissed each other and wept together, but David wept the the most.
Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother, took it, so he gave him Achsah his daughter as his wife.
And the lamp of God is not yet extinguished, and Samuel is lying down in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God ,
and apart from all controversy, the less by the better is blessed --
'Have they not found, have they not divided the plunder? A lady, two princesses to every man; to Sisera a plunder of dyed garments, a plunder of dyed garments embroidered, of dyed garments embroidered on both sides, on the necks of the plunder?'
Don't be carried away by various and strange teachings, for it is good that the heart be established by grace, not by food, through which those who were so traded were not benefited.
Let our lord now command thy servants, that are before thee, to seek out a man, who is a skilful player on an harp: and it shall come to pass, when the evil spirit from God is upon thee, that he shall play with his hand, and thou shalt be well.
And the five men went and came to Laish, and they kept the people who were living according to the customs of the Sidonians; quiet and unsuspecting, and lacking nothing in the land, and possessing restraint. And they were far from the Sidonians and had no word with anyone.
For the law having a shadow of the coming good things -- not the very image of the matters, every year, by the same sacrifices that they offer continually, is never able to make perfect those coming near,
And he dwelt in the midst of the Chanaanites the inhabitants of that land, and did not slay them.
"Then you will go on forward from there, and you will come to the oak of Tabor. Three men will meet you there ascent to God to Beth-el, one carrying three young goats, and another carrying three loaves of bread, and another carrying a bottle of wine.
But we see him who was made a little lower than God, even Jesus, crowned with glory and honor, because he let himself be put to death so that by the grace of God he might undergo death for all men.
And Michal let David down through a window; and he went, and fled and escaped.
He had thirty sons, and as many daughters, whom he sent abroad, and gave to husbands, and took wives for his sons of the same number, bringing them into his house. And he judged Israel seven years:
But his wife said to him, If Jehovah were pleased to kill us, he would not have received a burnt-offering and an oblation at our hands, neither would he have showed us all these things, nor would he at this time have told us [such things] as these.
And, behold, there came an old man from his work out of the field at even, which was also of the hill-country of Ephraim; and he sojourned in the hill: but the men of the place were Benjamites.
And David's two wives, Ahinoam of Jezreel and Abigail, the wife of Nabal of Carmel, had been made prisoners.
And I beseech you the more to do this, that I may be restored to you the sooner.
David swore moreover, and said, "Your father knows well that I have found favor in your eyes; and he says, 'Don't let Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved:' but truly as Yahweh lives, and as your soul lives, there is but a step between me and death."
And even Jehovah, saith to him, `Peace to thee; fear not; thou dost not die.'
He raises up the poor out of the dust. He lifts up the needy from the dunghill, To make them sit with princes, and inherit the throne of glory. For the pillars of the earth are Yahweh's. He hast set the world on them.
Jehovah, when thou wentest forth from Seir, When thou marchedst out of the fields of Edom, The earth trembled, and the heavens dropped, Yea, the clouds dropped water.
And the man hath not been desiring to lodge all night, and he riseth, and goeth, and cometh in till over-against Jebus And it Jerusalem), and with him a couple of asses saddled; and his concubine with him.
And the bramble saith unto the trees, If in truth ye are anointing me for king over you, come, take refuge in my shadow; and if not -- fire cometh out from the bramble, and devoureth the cedars of Lebanon.
And he spoke also to the men of Penuel, saying, When I come again in peace, I will break down this tower.
And knowing the voice of the young man the Levite, and lodging with him, they said to him: Who brought thee hither? what dost thou here? why wouldst thou come hither?
He put his life in his hand and attacked the Philistine, and Yahweh brought about a great victory for all of Israel, and you saw it and rejoiced! Now why should you sin against innocent blood by killing David without cause?"
Then Jonathan said to him, "Tomorrow is the new moon, and you will be missed, because your seat will be empty.
And one of the sons of Ahimelech the son of Ahitub, named Abiathar, escaped, and fled after David.
Therefore Jesus also suffered outside the gate, in order that he might sanctify the people by his own blood.
and it is declared to Abimelech that all the masters of the tower of Shechem have gathered themselves together,
to the mark I pursue for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.
When Gideon came there, a man was giving his friend account of his dream, saying, See, I had a dream about a cake of barley bread who, falling into the tents of Midian, came on to the tent, overturning it so that it was outstretched flat on the earth.
And see, if it go up by the way of itself border to Beth-shemesh, it is he who hast done us this great evil; if not, then we shall know that it is not his hand that touched us; it was a chance happened to us.
How much more if the people had freely taken their food from the goods of those who were fighting against them! would there not have been much greater destruction among the Philistines?
accounting the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt; for he looked to the reward.
As David returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, Abner took him and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistine in his hand.
Therefore do not throw away your confidence, who hast great reward.
And the elders said: What shall we do with the rest, that have not received women? for all the women in Benjamin are dead.
But Jehovah said to Samuel, Look not on his countenance, or on the height of his stature; because I have rejected him; for it is not as man seeth; for man looketh upon the outward appearance, but Jehovah looketh upon the heart.
This day will even Jehovah, deliver thee up into my hand; and I will smite thee, and take thy head from thee; and I will give the dead bodies of the camp of the Philistines this day to the birds of the heavens and to the wild beasts of the earth. And all the earth shall know that Israel hast a God;
I give thanks to my God in every remembrance of you,
Whithersoever they went out, the hand of Jehovah was against them for evil, as Jehovah had said, and as Jehovah had sworn unto them: and they were greatly distressed.
And Abimelech came unto the tower, and fought against it, and went hard unto the door of the tower to burn it with fire.
Now the Philistines had captured the ark of God and brought it from Ebenezer to Ashdod.
And it was told Saul that David was fled to Geth, and he sought no more after him.
And the descendants of Dan said to him, "You should not let your voice be heard among us, so that ill-tempered men will not attack you, and take your life and the lives of your household."
Nevertheless Saul spake not anything that day: for he thought, Something hath befallen him, he is not clean; surely he is not clean.
The more eagerly, therefore, I did send him, that having seen him again ye may rejoice, and I may be less sorrowful;
Now the woman had a fattened bull calf in the house, so she quickly slaughtered it and took flour, kneaded dough, and baked him some unleavened bread.
But remember the former days in who, after you were enlightened, you endured a great struggle with sufferings,
They were a wall to us both night and day, all the days we were with them keeping the sheep.
And truly if they had kept in mind the country from which they went out, they would have had chances of turning back.
And so then here is the king walking about before you. Now I am old and gray, but my sons (look at them!) are with you; and I have walked about before you from my youth until this day.
And the war began again, and David went out and fought against the Philistines, and defeated them with a great slaughter, and they fled from his face.
and there turn and flee into the wilderness, unto the rock of Rimmon six hundred men, and they dwell in the rock Rimmon four months.
And he changed his countenance before them, and slipt down between their hands: and he stumbled against the doors of the gate, and his spittle ran down upon his beard.
Now therefore make a new cart, and take two milch cattle, on which there hath come no yoke, Tie the kine to the cart, and bring their calves home from them:
And they found among the inhabitants of Jabesh-Gilead four hundred young women that were virgins, who had known no man by lying with any male, and they brought them to the camp, to Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
And David kept in the waste land, in safe places, waiting in the hill-country in the waste land of Ziph. And Saul was searching for him every day, but God did not give him up into his hands.
But we cannot give them wives from our daughters." (for the Israelites swore, saying, "Cursed be anyone who gives a wife to Benjamin.")
And here men that die receive tithes; but there he receiveth them, of whom it is witnessed that he liveth.
But Samuel said to Saul, "I will not return with you, for you have rejected the word of Yahweh, and he hast rejected you from being king over Israel!"
And in time death overtook all that generation, and another generation came after them, having no knowledge of Jehovah or of the things which he had done for Israel.
For every one that useth milk is unskilful in the word of righteousness; for he is a babe.
And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnath-Heres, in the hill-country of Ephraim, on the north side of the mountain of Gaash.
And sending, they gathered together all the lords of the Philistines to them, and said: What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And the Gethrites answered: Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried about. And they carried the ark of the God of Israel about.
And Jehovah hath been for judge, and hath judged between me and thee, yea, he seeth and pleadeth my cause, and doth deliver me out of thy hand.'
and Jesse took an ass laden with bread, and a bottle of wine, and a kid, and sent them by David his son unto Saul.
And Samuel saith unto Saul, `Desist, and I declare to thee that which Jehovah hath spoken unto me to-night;' and he saith to him, `Speak.'
So he restored them to his mother, who said to him: I have consecrated and vowed this silver to Jehovah, that my son may receive it at my hand, and make a graven and a molten god, so now I deliver it to thee.
But there was a strong tower within the city, and all the men and women of the city fled there, and shut themselves in, and went up to the roof of the tower.
and he said to Israel, "Thus says Yahweh the God of Israel: 'I brought Israel up from Egypt, and I delivered you from the hand of the Egyptians and from the hand of all the kingdoms that were oppressing you.'
And Gideon said, Therefore when Jehovah hath delivered Zebah and Zalmunna into my hand, then I will tear your flesh with the thorns of the wilderness and with briers.
And the men of Israel said, Have you seen this man? Clearly he hast come out to put shame on Israel: and it is certain that if any man overcomes him, the king will give that man great wealth, and will give him his daughter, and make his father's family free in Israel.
And the children of Dan went their way: and when Micah saw that they were too mighty for him, he turned and went back unto his house.
And Samuel called together the people to Jehovah in Maspha:
And Jehovah delivered them up into the hands of Jaban king of Canaan, who reigned in Asor: and he had a captain of his army named Sisara, and he dwelt in Haroseth of the Gentiles.
And Saul sought to smite David and the wall with the spear; but he slipped away out of Saul's presence, and he smote the spear into the wall. And David fled, and escaped that night.
and it cometh to pass, when Israel hath been strong, that he setteth the Canaanite to taskwork, and hath not utterly dispossessed it.
And he calleth him, on that day, Jerubbaal, saying, `The Baal doth plead against him, because he hath broken down his altar.'
When Samuel came to Saul, Saul said to him, "May you be blessed by Yahweh! I have kept the word of Yahweh."
The donkeys of Kish, Saul's father, were lost. Kish said to Saul his son, "Take now one of the servants with you, and arise, go look for the donkeys."
And David cometh in unto Ziklag, and sendeth of the spoil to the elders of Judah, to his friends, (saying, `Lo, for you a blessing, of the spoil of the enemies of Jehovah),'
by faith a better sacrifice did Abel offer to God than Cain, through which he was testified to be righteous, God testifying of his gifts, and through it, he being dead, doth yet speak.
namely, five lords of the Philistines, and all the Canaanite, and the Sidonians; and the Hivites that dwelt in mount Lebanon, from mount Baal-hermon unto the entrance of Hamath.
And the five men that had gone to spy out the land went up, entered in thither, took the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image; and the priest stood at the entrance of the gate with the six hundred men that were girded with weapons of war.
Now the name of the man was Nabal; and the name of his wife Abigail: and she was a woman of good understanding, and of a beautiful countenance; But the man was churlish and evil in his doings; and he was of the house of Caleb.
Wherefore as the Holy Spirit saith, To-day if ye will hear his voice,
Then said David, Will the men of Keilah deliver me and my men into the hand of Saul? And Jehovah said, They will deliver thee up.
Then Samuel said to Saul, "Why have you disturbed me by bringing me up?" And Saul said, "I am in distress! For the Philistines are about to make war against me, but God hast turned away from me, and he does not answer me any more, not by the prophets or by the dreams. So I called to you to let me know what I should do."
"Wake up, wake up, Deborah! Wake up, wake up, sing a song! Get up, Barak! Take captive your captives, O son of Abinoam.
And when David's young men came, they said all this to Nabal, in David's name, and said nothing more.
Yahweh makes poor, and makes rich. He brings low, he also lifts up.
And Saul put up his tents on the hill of Hachilah, which is in before the waste land on the road. But David was in the waste land, and he saw that Saul was coming after him.
concerning zeal, persecuting the assembly; concerning the righteousness which is in the law, found blameless.
And the Philistines fight, and Israel is smitten, and they flee each to his tents, and the blow is very great, and there fall of Israel thirty thousand footmen;
And he said to her, If they only put round me new thick cords who have never been used, then I will become feeble and will be like any other man.
And when he came back he said to his father and mother, I have seen a woman in Timna, of the daughters of the Philistines: get her now for me for my wife.
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly vocation, consider the apostle and high priest of our confession, Jesus:
So, then, be kind to your servant; for you have been united with your servant in your peace made before Jehovah: but if there is any wrongdoing in me, put me to death yourself; why take me to your father?
And the cook took up the leg with the fat tail on it, and put it before Saul. And Samuel said, This is the part which hast been kept for you; take it as your part of the feast; because it hast been kept for you till the right time came and till the guests were present. So that day Saul took food with Samuel.
For when God made a promise to Abraham, since he had no one greater to swear by, he swore by himself,
And he took them to the king of Moab and they went on living with him while David was in his safe place.
And the Holy Spirit is a witness for us; for after he had said,
and they capture two of the heads of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb, and slay Oreb at the rock of Oreb and Zeeb they have slain at the wine-vat of Zeeb, and they pursue unto Midian: and the heads of Oreb and Zeeb they have brought in unto Gideon beyond the Jordan.
And David saith unto Achish, `But what have I done? and what hast thou found in thy servant from the day that I have been before thee till this day -- that I go not in and have fought against the enemies of my lord the king?'
While it is said, To-day if ye will hear his voice, harden not your hearts, as in the provocation.
As they were going down at the end of the city, Samuel said to Saul, "Tell the servant to go on ahead of us." He went ahead, then Samuel said, "But stand still first, that I may cause you to hear God's message."
and the Spirit of Jehovah is upon him, and he judgeth Israel, and goeth out to battle, and Jehovah giveth unto his hand Chushan-Rishathaim king of Aram, and strong is his hand against Chushan-Rishathaim;
And it was told Saul that David was come to Keilah. And Saul said, God hath delivered him into my hand; for he is shut in, by entering into a village that hath gates and bars.
so that we say with a good heart, Jehovah is my helper; I will have no fear: what is man able to do to me?
See, brethren, lest there shall be in any of you an evil heart of their unbelief in the falling away from the living God,
But Christ as a son, over his house; whose house are we, if we keep our hearts fixed in the glad and certain hope till the end.
Whithersoever they went out the hand of Jehovah was against them for evil, as Jehovah had said, and as Jehovah had sworn unto them; and they were greatly distressed.
And the servants of Achish said to him, Is not this David, the king of the land? did they not make songs about him in their dances, saying, Saul hast put to death thousands, and David tens of thousands?
See to dogs, see to evil workmen, see to the concision.
So that at the name of Jesus every knee may be bent; of those in heaven and those on earth and those in the underworld,
And Jephthah goeth with the elders of Gilead, and the people set him over them for head and for captain, and Jephthah speaketh all his words before Jehovah in Mizpah.
For this Melchizedek, king of Salem, priest of the Most High God, who met Abraham as he was returning from the slaughter of the kings and blessed him,
As I swore in my anger, 'They will never enter into my rest.'"
And I said: I am Jehovah your God, fear not the gods of the Amorrhites, in whose land you dwell. And you would not hear my voice.
All the people arose as one man, saying, "None of us will go to his tent, neither will any of us turn to his house.
She was in bitterness of soul, and prayed to Yahweh, weeping bitterly.
From there they crossed over to the hill-country of Ephraim, and they came to the house of Micah.
And Eli saith to Samuel, `Go, lie down, and it hath been if He doth call unto thee, that thou hast said, Speak, Jehovah, for Thy servant is hearing;' and Samuel goeth and lieth down in his place.
For every one that partakes of milk unskilled in the word of righteousness, for he is a babe;
And Saul said to David, Thou art not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him; for thou art but a youth, and he a man of war from his youth.
And the men of Ephraim are called together, and pass over northward, and say to Jephthah, `Wherefore hast thou passed over to fight against the Bene-Ammon, and on us hast not called to go with thee? thy house we burn over thee with fire.'
Of this we have much to say and it is difficult to explain, since you have become sluggish in hearing.
But we see him who hast been made a little lower than God, Jesus, because of the suffering of death crowned with glory and honor, that by the grace of God he should taste of death for everyone.
(for nothing did the law perfect) and the bringing in of a better hope, through which we draw nigh to God.
So turning their backs on the men of Israel, they went in With the waste land; but the fight overtook them; and those who came out of the village were heading them off and laying them to the sword.
But still they would not give ear to their judges, but went after other gods and gave them worship; quickly turning from the way in which their fathers had gone, keeping the orders of Jehovah; but they did not do so.
And the cart hath come in unto the field of Joshua the Beth-Shemeshite, and standeth there, and there a great stone, and they cleave the wood of the cart, and the kine they have caused to ascend -- a burnt-offering to Jehovah.
but into the second the high priest alone, once in the year, not without blood, which he offers for himself, and for the errors of the people.
For if the priests are changed, it is necessary to make a change in the law.
And Asher did not take the land of the people of Acco, or Sidon, or Ahlab, or Achzib, or Helbah, or Aphik, or Rehob, driving them out;
And the custom of the priests with the people : any man sacrificing a sacrifice -- then hath the servant of priest come in when the flesh is boiling, and the hook of three teeth in his hand,
Manoah said, "Now let your words happen. What shall the child's way of life and mission be?"
And Zebul said to him: Where is now thy mouth wherewith thou saidst? Who is Abimelech that we should serve him? Is not this the people which thou didst despise? Go out, and fight against him.
Then they said, What sin-offering are we to send to him? And they said, Five gold images of the growths caused by your disease and five gold mice, one for every lord of the Philistines: for the same disease came on you and on your lords.
And I also have said, I do not cast them out from your presence, and they have been to you for adversaries, and their gods are to you for a snare.'
And do not turn aside after the triviality, which have no value and cannot deliver, for they are triviality.
The king said to the guard who stood about him, "Turn, and kill the priests of Yahweh; because their hand also is with David, and because they knew that he fled, and didn't disclose it to me." But the servants of the king wouldn't put out their hand to fall on the priests of Yahweh.
Therefore he also is able to save to the outermost those who draw near to God through him, seeing that he lives forever to make intercession for them.
And he said, They were my brothers, my mother's sons: by the life of the Lord, if you had kept them safe, I would not put you to death.
And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
There was a man in Maon, whose possessions were in Carmel; and the man was very great. He had three thousand sheep and a thousand goats; and he was shearing his sheep in Carmel.
And all Israel heard this report: Saul hath smitten the garrison of the Philistines; and Israel took courage against the Philistines. And the people were called together after Saul to Galgal.
So the children of Israel got up in the morning and put themselves in position against Gibeah.
And the men of Israel went out from Mizpah and went after the Philistines, attacking them till they came under Beth-car.
And Eli heareth the noise of the cry, and saith, `What -- the noise of this tumult!' And the man hasted, and cometh in, and declareth to Eli.
And the hand-part went in after the shoulder-blade, And the fat was joined up over the blade; for he did not take the sword out of his stomach. And he went out into the ...
And they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines fight against Keilah, and they rob the threshing-floors.
And it came to pass in the morning that Jonathan went out into the field, to the place agreed on with David, and a little lad with him.
For God is not unrighteous, so as to forget your work and the love which you demonstrated for his name by having served the saints, and continuing to serve them.
They said, "If you send away the ark of the God of Israel, don't send it empty; but by all means return a trespass-offering to him. Then you will be healed, and it will be known to you why his hand is not journeyed from you."
But ye came to Mount Zion, and to a city of the living God, to the heavenly Jerusalem, and to myriads of messengers,
Then Jonathan said, My father hast made trouble come on the land: now see how bright my eyes have become because I have taken a little of this honey.
The whole assembly sent and spoke to the children of Benjamin who were in the rock of Rimmon, and proclaimed peace to them.
But I trust in Jehovah Jesus to send Timothy shortly unto you, that I also may be comforted; when I know your state.
So they sent the ark of God to Ekron. But when the ark of God came to Ekron, the Ekronites cried out, saying, "They have brought around the ark of the God of Israel to kill us and our people!"
Out of Ephraim their root against Amalek. After thee, Benjamin, among thy peoples. Out of Machir came down lawgivers, And out of Zebulun those drawing with the reed of a writer.
because to you hast been given, as regards Christ, not only the believing on him but the suffering for him also,
And it came to pass at the end of two months, that she returned to her father, and he performed on her the vow that he had vowed; and she had known no man. And it became a fixed custom in Israel,
The children of Israel grieved for Benjamin their brother, and said, "There is one tribe cut off from Israel today.
And Samuel said to the cook, Bring the portion that I gave thee, of which I said to thee, Set it by thee.
Now to God our Father be the glory for ever and ever. So be it.
By so much was Jesus made a surety of a better testament.
Thus says Yahweh of hosts: 'I have observed what Amalek did to Israel, how he opposed him when he went up from Egypt.
So he passed through the hill-country of Ephraim. he passed through the land of Shalisha but they did not find them. They passed through the land of Shaalim but they were not there. He passed through the land of Benjamin but did not find them.
And David said: Truly in vain have I kept all that belonged to this man in the wilderness, and nothing was lost of all that pertaineth unto him: and he hath returned me evil for good.
If thy father look and inquire for me, thou shalt answer him; David asked me that he might run to Beth-lehem his own city: because there are solemn sacrifices there for all his tribe.
And they set an ambush against him on the top of the mountains; and while they waited for his coming, they committed robberies, taking spoil of all that passed by; and it was told Abimelech.
And David said unto Ahimelech, And is there not here under thy hand spear or sword? for I have neither brought my sword nor my weapons with me, because the king's business required haste.
Samuel said to Saul, "I will not return with you; for you have rejected Yahweh's word, and Yahweh hast rejected you from being king over Israel."
for certain having heard did provoke, but not all who did come out of Egypt through Moses;
Saul said to him, "Whose son are you, you young man?" David answered, "I am the son of your servant Jesse the Bethlehemite."
For then would they not have ceased to be offered? because that the worshippers once purged should have had no more conscience of sins.
Eli blessed Elkanah and his wife, and said, "May Yahweh give you offspring from this woman for the petition which was asked of Yahweh." Then they went to their own home.
He asked water, she gave milk; In the nobles' bowl she brought forth cream.
And the hand of the children of Israel prospered, and prevailed against Jabin the king of Canaan, until they had destroyed Jabin king of Canaan.
But the sons of Benjamin did not destroy the Jebusites that inhabited Jerusalem; and the Jebusite hath dwelt with the sons of Benjamin in Jerusalem until this present day.
and we will take ten men of a hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred of a thousand, and a thousand of ten thousand, to fetch victuals for the people, that they may do, when they come to Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all the folly that they have wrought in Israel.
Salute every one in Christ Jesus. The brethren who with me salute you.
And he came to the sheepcotes, which were in his way. And there was a cave, into which Saul went, to ease nature: now David and his men lay hid in the inner part of the cave.
Now there was a man in Maon, whose business was in Carmel. The man was very rich and owned three thousand sheep and a thousand goats. Now the shearing of his sheep was taking place in Carmel.
And they commanded the children of Benjamin, and said: Go, and lie hid in the vineyards,
And he said to them, "Follow after me! Yahweh hast given Moab your enemies into your hand." So they went down after him, and they captured the fords of the Jordan toward Moab; and they did not know anyone to cross over.
And Yahweh, the God of Israel, gave Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they defeated them; and Israel traded all the land of the Amorites inhabiting that land.
What then? in every way, whether in pretence or in truth, Christ is proclaimed -- and in this I rejoice, yea, and shall rejoice.
And truly if they had been mindful of that from whence they came out, they had doubtless time to return.
And David answered and said, Behold, the king's spear, and let one of the young men come over and fetch it.
Are they not all ministering spirits, sent forth to minister for them who shall be heirs of salvation?
So David and his men rose up early to depart in the morning, to return into the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
But he refused and said, "I will not eat!" However, his servants urged him, and the woman also. So he listened to what they said, and he bought up from the ground and sat on the bed.
For he was still in the loins of his father when Melchizedek met him.
And it came to pass soon afterwards, that David's heart smote him, because he had cut off Saul's skirt.
And the men of Israel went out to battle against Benjamin: and the men of Israel put themselves in array to fight against them at Gibeah.
And the wrath of Jehovah was burning against Israel, and he gave them up into the hands of the Philistines and into the hands of the children of Ammon.
And when she was very near death the women who were with her said, Have no fear, for you have given birth to a son. But she made no answer and gave no attention to it.
And Saul said to his servants, Then get me a man who is an expert player, and make him come to me.
Who is a parable of the time present: according to which gifts and sacrifices are oblation, who can not, as to the conscience, make him perfect that serveth, only in things and in drinks,
And the woman bare a son, and called his name Samson: and the child grew, and Jehovah blessed him.
By faith, Joseph, when his end was near, made mention of the departure of the children of Israel; and gave instructions concerning his bones.
And Yahweh called Samuel again, so Samuel got up and went to Eli and said, "Here I am, because you called me." And he said, "I did not call you, my son. Go back and lie down."
Neither did Zebulun drive out the inhabitants of Kitron, nor the inhabitants of Nahalol; but the Canaanites dwelt among them, and became tributaries.
And the hand of the children of Israel ever advanced, and prevailed against Jabin king of Canaan, until they had cut off Jabin king of Canaan.
But Sisara fleeing came to the tent of Jahel the wife of Haber the Cinite, for there was peace between Jabin the king of Asor, and the house of Haber the Cinite.
And as the angel of Yahweh spoke these words to all Israel, the people wept bitterly.
After him Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite judged Israel.
That afterwards their children might learn to fight with their enemies, and to be trained up to war:
and Phinehas son of Eleazar, son of Aaron, was standing before it to minister in those days), saying, "Should we go out once more to battle against the descendants of Benjamin our relatives, or should we stop?" And Yahweh said, "Go up tomorrow; I will give them into your hand."
And ye have forgotten the exhortation that speaketh unto you as unto children, My son, despise not thou the chastening of Jehovah, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him:
And he brought the tribe of Benjamin and the kindreds thereof, and the lot fell Upon the family of Metri, and it came to Saul the son of Cis. They sought him therefore and he was not found.
for they could not stand that which was commanded, "If even an animal touches the mountain, it shall be stoned";
Then Jonathan said, "Look, we are about to go over to the men; and we will show ourselves to them.
Then Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said unto him, Thou son of the perverse rebellious woman, do not I know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thine own shame and unto the confusion of thy mother's nakedness?
Jerubbaal the son of Joash went and lived in his own house.
Now Samuel did not yet know Jehovah, neither was the word of Jehovah yet revealed unto him.
For God, having promised to Abraham, since he had no greater to swear by, swore by himself,
and have tasted the good word of God, and works of power of age to come,
and Hannah, she is speaking to her heart, only her lips are moving, and her voice is not heard, and Eli maketh a reckoning her to be drunken.
And he standeth and calleth unto the ranks of Israel, and saith to them, `Why are ye come out to set in array war? not I the Philistine, and ye servants to Saul? choose for you a man, and let him come down unto me;
Now David was the son of an Ephrathite. This man was from Bethlehem of Judah, and his name was Jesse. He had eight sons; in the days of Saul this man was old, yet he still walked among the men.
Then Saul said to his servants who were there about him, Give ear now, you Benjamites; will the son of Jesse give to each one of you fields and vine-gardens, will he make you all captains of hundreds and captains of thousands:
Then David put his hand into the bag and took a stone from it and slung it. He struck the Philistine on his forehead, and the stone went down into his forehead, and he fell on his face to the ground.
Then they traveled through the wilderness, went around the land of Edom, and Moab, and came to the east side of the land of Moab, and they encamped beyond the Arnon; and they did not go into the territory of Moab because the Arnon was the border of Moab.
Now therefore proclaim in the ears of the people, saying, 'Whoever is fearful and trembling, let him return and depart from Mount Gilead.'" So twenty-two thousand of the people returned, and ten thousand remained.
The woman said to him, "Behold, you know what Saul hast done, how he hast cut off those who have familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land. Why then do you lay a snare for my life, to cause me to die?"
Then she brought him up with her when she had weaned him, along with three bulls, one ephah of flour, and a skin of wine. She brought him to the house of Yahweh at Shiloh while the boy was still young.
For we are become companions of the Christ if indeed we hold the beginning of the assurance firm unto the end:
They were stoned, they were cut asunder, they were tempted, they were put to death by the sword, they wandered about in sheepskins, in goatskins, being in want, distressed, afflicted:
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armour-bearer, and all his men, that same day together.
and the Amorite is desirous to dwell in mount Heres, in Aijalon, and in Shaalbim, and the hand of the house of Joseph is heavy, and they become tributary;
And it was so, when Gideon heard the telling of the dream and the interpretation thereof, that he worshipped, and returned into the host of Israel, and said, Arise; for Jehovah hath delivered into your hand the host of Midian.
If he says 'Good,' it will mean peace for your servant; but if he is very angry, know that he hast decided to do me harm.
But the Spirit of Jehovah departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from Jehovah troubled him.
and lo, I send the youth; Go, find the arrows; If I at all say to the youth, Lo, the arrows on this side of thee -- take them, -- then come thou, for peace for thee, and there is nothing; Jehovah liveth.
For there are those, of whom I have given you word before, and do so now with sorrow, who are haters of cross of Christ;
For if that first covenant had been faultless, occasion would not have been sought for a second.
The ambush was sitting in wait for her in an inner place. And she said to him, "The Philistines are upon you Samson!" And he snapped the bowstrings just as flax fiber snaps when it comes close to fire. And the secret of his strength remained unknown.
He answered and said: I beseech thee, my lord, wherewith shall I deliver Israel? Behold, my family is the meanest in Manasses, and I am the least in my father's house.
Then the Spirit of Yahweh will rush upon you, and you will prophesy with them; and you will turn into a different person.
Is this the first time I have bought directions from God for him? Far be the thought! let the king make no such statement against his servant or my father's family, for your servant hast no knowledge, great or small, of this thing.
And the king said, Enquire thou whose son the stripling is.
The king of the children of Ammon answered to the messengers of Jephthah, "Because Israel took away my land, when he came up out of Egypt, from the the Arnon even to the Jabbok, and to the the Jordan. Now therefore restore that territory again peaceably."
And Barac said to her: If thou wilt come with me, I will go: if thou wilt not come with me, I will not go.
That first slaughter, which Jonathan and his armor bearer made, was about twenty men, within as it were half a furrow's length in an acre of land.
Then he said to all Israel, You be on one side, and I with Jonathan my son will be on the other side. And the people said to Saul, Do whatever seems good to you.
and this -- `Yet once' -- doth make evident the removal of the things shaken, as of things having been made, that the things not shaken may remain;
And Saul said, They have taken them from the Amalekites: for the people have kept the best of the sheep and of the oxen as an offering to Jehovah your God; all the rest we have given up to destruction.
And the ambush came quickly and advanced against Gibeah, and it put the whole city to the sword.
let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering; for he who promised is faithful.
But Yahweh's hand was heavy on the people of Ashdod, and he destroyed them, and smote them with tumors, even Ashdod, and itself border.
The one point rose up on the north in before Michmash and the other on the south in before Geba.
nothing in the spirit of strife or vain glory, but, in lowliness of mind, each esteeming the other as more excellent than themselves;
But ye know the proof of him, that, as a child a father, he hast served with me in the work of the glad tidings.
Gilead abode beyond the Jordan: and why did Dan remain in ships? Asher continued on the sea the beach; and they abode in his breaches.
And they came across Adoni-zedek, and made war on him; and they overcame the Canaanites and the Perizzites.
Gideon went in and prepared a young goat and unleavened cakes of an ephah of meal. He put the food in a basket and he put the broth in a pot, and brought it out to him under the oak, and presented it.
And even Jehovah, smiteth Benjamin before Israel, and the sons of Israel destroy in Benjamin, on that day, twenty and five thousand, and a hundred men; all these drawing sword.
And Doeg the Edomite who stood by, and was the chief among the servants of Saul, answering, said: I saw the son of Isai, in Nobe with Achimelech the son of Achitob the priest.
But see how great this man was, to whom Abraham the patriarch gave a tenth from the spoils!
For it became him, for whom are all things, and through whom are all things, in bringing many sons unto glory, to make the captain of their salvation perfect through sufferings.
How much worse punishment do you think the person will be considered worthy of who treats with disdain the Son of God and who considers ordinary the blood of the covenant by which he was made holy and who insults the Spirit of grace?
So Abimelech was chief over Israel for three years.
Then she said to her servants, "Go ahead before me; look, I am coming after you," but she did not tell her husband Nabal.
How much more, if the people had eaten freely to-day of the spoil of their enemies which they found? for would there not now have been a much greater slaughter among the Philistines?
Will the men of Ceila deliver me into his hands? and will Saul come down, as thy servant hath heard? O Jehovah, the God of Israel, tell thy servant. And Jehovah said: He will come down.
And Abigail hasted, and arose and rode upon an ass, with five damsels of hers that went after her; and she went after the messengers of David, and became his wife.
They were stoned, they were sawed in two, they died by murder with a sword, they wandered about in sheepskins, in goatskins, beaten down, afflicted, mistreated,
Then he said to the representatives who had come, Say to the men of Jabesh-gilead, Tomorrow, by the time the sun is high, you will be made safe. And the representatives came and gave the news to the men of Jabesh; and they were glad.
By faith Rahab the harlot did not perish along with the unbelieving, having received the spies in peace.
they will perish, but you continue, and they will all become old like a garment;
And Samson lay till midnight; and he arose at midnight, and seized the doors of the gate of the city, and the two thresholds, and tore them up with the bar, and put upon his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of the mountain that is before Hebron.
But the hair of his head began to grow back after it had been shaved off.
And Gideon sent messengers throughout all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, come down against Midian, and take before them the waters unto Bethbarah and the Jordan. Then all the men of Ephraim gathered themselves together, and took the waters unto Bethbarah and the Jordan.
And they declare to Saul, saying, `Lo, the peoples are sinning against Jehovah, to eat with the blood.' And he saith, `Ye have dealt treacherously, roll unto me to-day a great stone.'
And the Spirit of Jehovah shall come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shalt be changed into another man.
Therefore, since the children share in blood and flesh, he also in like manner shared in these same things, in order that through death he could destroy the one who hast the power of death, that is, the devil,
saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren, in the midst of the church will I sing praises unto thee.
Then Samuel said to all Israel, If with all your hearts you would come back to Jehovah, then put away all the foreign gods and the Astartes from among you, and let your hearts be turned to Jehovah, and be servants to him only: and he will make you safe from the hands of the Philistines.
And Saul removed him from him, and made him his captain over a thousand; and he went out and came in before the people.
And Abimelech riseth, and all the people who with him, by night, and they lay wait against Shechem -- four detachments;
And as they were going down to the end of the city, Samuel said to Saul, Bid the servant pass on before us (and he passed on), but stand thou still a while, that I may show thee the word of God.
And she said, Let thy handmaid find favor in thy sight. And the woman went away, and did eat, and her countenance was no more [as before].
Yahweh visited Hannah, and she conceived, and bore three sons and two daughters. The child Samuel grew before Yahweh.
But that which bringeth forth thorns and briers, is reprobate, and very near unto a curse, whose end is to be burnt.
Then Gilead captured the fords of the Jordan from Ephraim, and whenever a fugitive of Ephraim said, "Let me cross over," the men of Gilead said to him, "Are you an Ephraimite?" When he said, "No,"
For God is not unrighteous, that he should forget your work, and the love which you have shewn in his name, you who have ministered, and do minister to the saints.
and the haft also goeth in after the shoulder-blade, And the fat shutteth on the shoulder-blade, that he hath not drawn the sword out of his belly, and it goeth out at the fundament.
For truly, by the living Lord, the God of Israel, who hast kept me from doing you evil, if you had not been so alive in coming to me and meeting me, by dawn there would not have been in Nabal's house so much as one male living.
He had two wives; the name of the first was Hannah, and the name of the second was Peninnah. Now Peninnah had children, but Hannah had no children.
And when he saw her, he rent his garments, and said: Alas! my daughter, thou hast persuaded me, and thou thyself art deceived: for I have opened my mouth to Jehovah, and I can do no other thing.
And again, I will trust in him. And again, Behold, I and the children which God hast given me.
Only let your behavior be as it becometh the gospel: that whether I come and see you, or else be absent, I may hear of your state, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel;
After a time the Ammonites made war with Israel.
And David said: O Jehovah, the God of Israel, thy servant hath heard a report, that Saul designeth to come to Ceila, to destroy the city for my sake:
and the Spirit of Jehovah hath clothed Gideon, and he bloweth with a trumpet, and Abi-Ezer is called after him;
Hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds;
And the ark was in Kiriath-jearim for a long time, as much as twenty years: and all Israel was searching after Jehovah with weeping,
So the man, the master of the house, went out to them, and said, No, my brothers, do not this evil thing; this man hast come into my house, and you are not to do him this wrong.
So that as it is clear that some have to go in, and that the first hearers of the good news were not able to go in because they went against God's orders,
And the king sendeth to call Ahimelech son of Ahitub, the priest, and all the house of his father, the priests, who in Nob, and they come all of them unto the king;
And they sit and eat both of them together, and drink, and the father of the young woman saith unto the man, `Be willing, I pray thee, and lodge all night, and let thy heart be glad.'
Because for the work of Christ he was near to death, putting his life in danger to make your care for me complete.
And it cometh to pass, from the day of the dwelling of the ark in Kirjath-Jearim, that the days are multiplied -- yea, they are twenty years -- and wail do all the house of Israel after Jehovah.
and he sendeth messengers unto Abimelech negligently; saying, `Lo, Gaal son of Ebed and his brethren are coming into Shechem, and lo, they are fortifying the city against thee;
And not while I am still alive, will you not show the loyal love of Yahweh with me, that I may not die?
Above, saying Sacrifices and offerings and burnt-offerings and sacrifices for sin thou willedst not, neither tookest pleasure in (which are offered according to the law);
Yea, most certainly, and I count all things to be a loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus, my Lord, for whom I suffered the loss of all things, and count them nothing but wilt, that I may gain Christ
Now I say, I will not drive them out from before you; they will become as thorns for you, and their gods will be a trap for you."
For Christ did not go into a holy place which had been made by men's hands as the copy of the true one; but he went into heaven itself, and now takes his place before the face of God for us.
Though *I* have trust in flesh; if any other think to trust in flesh, *I* rather:
But the people gave no attention to the voice of Samuel: and they said, No, but we will have a king over us,
Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came to Samuel unto Ramah,
and I have declared to him that I am judging his house -- to the age, for the iniquity which he hath known, for his sons are making themselves vile, and he hath not restrained them,
And he said to him, Far be the device: you will not be put to death: see, my father does nothing, great or small, without giving me word of it: would he keep this secret from me? It is not so.
And when Abigail saw David she made haste and lighted off the ass, and fell before David, on her face, and adored upon the ground.
and Jesse saith to David his son, `Take, I pray thee, to thy brethren, an ephah of this roasted , and these ten loaves, and run to the camp to thy brethren;
And so I have said, I will not send them out from before you; but they will be a danger to you, and their gods will be a cause of falling to you.
And Saul, hearing that David had gone to Gath, went after him no longer.
By faith, Abraham, when he was called, obeyed to go out to the place which he was to receive for an inheritance. He went out, not knowing where he went.
And David went forth; whithersoever Saul sent him he prospered; and Saul set him over the men of war, and he was acceptable in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants.
His mother's brothers spoke of him in the ears of all the men of Shechem all these words. Their hearts inclined to follow Abimelech; for they said, "He is our brother."
Who needeth not daily as the other priests) to offer sacrifices first for his own sins, and then for the people's: for this he did once, in offering himself.
And Jonathan answered Saul: He asked leave of me earnestly to go to Beth-lehem,
And Gideon the son of Joash returned from battle before the sun was up,
Now David had said, "Surely in vain I guarded all that this man had in the desert. And nothing was missed of all that was his, but he returned evil against me in place of good!
Then Jesse made Shammah pass by. And he said, Neither hast even Jehovah, chosen this one.
For every house is builded by some man; But he that built all things is God.
So when David and his men came to the city, and found it burnt with fire, and that their wives and their sons and their daughters were taken captive,
but as to the Son, Thy throne, O God, to the age of the age, and a sceptre of uprightness the sceptre of thy kingdom.
Therefore Saul said unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, Give a perfect lot. And Saul and Jonathan were taken: but the people escaped.
All the people likewise each cut down his bough, and followed Abimelech, and put them at the base of the stronghold, and set the stronghold on fire on them; so that all the people of the tower of Shechem died also, about a thousand men and women.
The custom of the priests with the people was that, when anyone offered a sacrifice, the priest's servant came while the flesh was boiling, with a fork of three teeth in his hand;
Whose end is destruction, whose God is their belly, and whose glory is in their shame, who mind earthly things.)
And Yahweh said to Gideon, "The troops that are with you are too many for me to give Midian into their hands; Israel will gloriest, it is saying, 'My hand hast delivered me.'
Where Jesus hast gone before us, as a high priest for ever After the order of Melchizedek.
This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, saith Jehovah, I will put my laws into their hearts, and in their minds will I write them;
And they cut off his head, and stripped off his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to announce the good tidings in the houses of their idols, and to the people.
He showed them the entrance into the city, and they struck the city with the edge of the sword; but they let the man and all his family go.
Then Ehud came in to him while he was seated by himself in his summer-house. And Ehud said, I have a word from God for you. And he bought up from his seat.
So now, give thought to what you are going to do; for evil is in store for our master and all his house; for he is such a good-for-nothing person that it is not possible to say anything to him.
And it was told Abimelech that all the men of the tower of Shechem had gathered together.
We raided the Negev of the Kerethites and that which belongs to Judah and then the Negev of Caleb, and we burned Ziklag with fire."
Take courage and be men, you Philistines, lest you end up serving the Hebrews just like they have served you. Be men and fight!"
And when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah was come into the camp, all Israel shouted with a great shout, and the earth rang again.
Not forsaking our assembly, as some are accustomed; but comforting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching.
to the captain assembly and assembly of the first-born who are enrolled in heaven, to God the Judge of all, to the spirits of righteous men made perfect,
Let us then, though we still have God's word that we may come into his rest, go in fear that some of you may be unable to do so.
For there is an annulling of a foregoing commandment because of itself weakness and uselessness
And in this place again, If they shall enter into my rest.
For we who have believed do enter into rest, as he said, As I have sworn in my wrath, if they shall enter into my rest: although the works were finished from the foundation of the world.
For every high priest is appointed to offer gifts and sacrifices: wherefore it is necessary that he also should have some thing to offer.
Adoni-bezek said, "Seventy kings with their thumb and big toes cut off used to pick up scraps under my table. just as I have done, so God hast repaid to me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and he died there.
So then, O king, whenever you want to come down, come down, and it will be for us to deliver him into the hand of the king."
and more abundantly do I call upon to do this, that more quickly I may be restored to you.
the things that also ye did learn, and receive, and hear, and saw in me, those do, and the God of peace shall be with you.
Now it came to pass upon a day, that Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man that bare his armor, Come, and let us go over to the Philistines' garrison, that is on the other side. But he told not his father.
And the priest's heart was glad, and he took the ephod, and the teraphim, and the graven image, and went in the midst of the people.
And the man, the master of the house, went out to them, and said to them, No, my brethren, I pray you, do not wickedly; seeing that this man is come into my house, do not this villany.
Wherefore all the children of Israel came to the house of God, and sat and wept before Jehovah: and they fasted that day till the evening, and offered to him holocausts, and victims of peace-offerings,
And even if I am offered like a drink-offering, giving myself for the cause and work of your faith, I am glad and have joy with you all:
But David's men said to him, Behold, we are afraid here in Judah: how much more then if we go to Keilah against the armies of the Philistines?
(for where [there is] a testament, the death of the testator must needs come in.
for he who did enter into his rest, he also rested from his works, as God from His own.
And as for the asses, that were lost three days ago, be not solicitous, because they are found. And for whom shall be all the best things of Israel? Shall they not be for thee and for all thy father's house?
And he sent messengers unto Abimelech privily, saying, Behold, Gaal the son of Ebed and his brethren are come to Shechem; and, behold, they fortify the city against thee.
And all Israel heard say, Saul hast smitten the garrison of the Philistines, and Israel also hast become odious to the Philistines. And the people were called together after Saul to Gilgal.
And therefore I have sworn unto the house of Eli, that the iniquity of Eli's house shall not be cleansed with sacrifice nor oblation for ever.
And behold, there came an old man from his work out of the field at even; and the man was of the hill-country of Ephraim, and he sojourned in Gibeah; but the men of the place were Benjaminites.
Because you didn't obey Yahweh's voice, and didn't execute his fierce wrath on Amalek, therefore Yahweh hast done this thing to you today.
And you must take the ark of Yahweh and place it on the utility cart with the gold objects that you are returning to him as a guilt thereof. You must place them in the container besides the ark and then send it off so that it goes away.
a servant of the sanctuary, and of the true tabernacle, which Jehovah pitched, not man.
And ye have this day rejected your God, who himself saved you out of all your adversities and your tribulations; and ye have said unto him, Nay, but set a king over us. Now therefore present yourselves before Jehovah by your tribes, and by your thousands.
And he took the honey in his hand, and went on, tasting it on the way; and when he came to his father and mother he gave some to them; but did not say that he had taken the honey from the body of the lion.
And they say to him, `Ask, we pray thee, at God, and we know whether our way is prosperous on which we are going.'
But he refused and said, I will not eat. Then his servants, and the woman also, compelled him, and he hearkened to their voice; and he arose from the earth and sat on the bed.
Because for the work of Christ he was nigh unto death, not regarding his life, to supply your lack of service toward me.
And they gave Hebron unto Caleb, as Moses said: and he drove thence the three sons of Anak.
And Jephthah sent messengers again to the king of the children of Ammon,
But if I go on living in the flesh--if this is the fruit of my work--then I do not see what decision to make.
David also took Ahinoam of Jezreel, and they both became his wives.
Neither did they show mercy to the house of Jerobaal Gedeon, according to all the good things he had done to Israel.
So he said to him, If now I have favor in your eyes, then give me a sign that it is you who are talking to me.
They will not teach every man his fellow citizen, and every man his brother, saying, 'Know the Lord,' for all will know me, from their least to their greatest.
And he saith unto them, `Thus and thus hath Micah done to me; and he hireth me, and I am to him for a priest.'
And the king of the Bene-Ammon hath not hearkened unto the words of Jephthah which he sent unto him,
Wilt thou not possess that which Chemosh thy god giveth thee to possess? So whomsoever Jehovah our God shall drive out from before us, them will we get.
And David answered and said, Behold, the king's spear! and let one of the young men come over and fetch it.
Then Zebul said to him, "Now where is your mouth, that you said, 'Who is Abimelech, that we should serve him?' Isn't this the people that you have despised? Please go out now and fight with them."
And when Samuel saw Saul, Jehovah said to him, This is the man of whom I gave you word! he it is who is to have authority over my people.
But now they desire a better country, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed of them, to be called their God, for he hast prepared a city for them.
And Judah went up, and Jehovah delivered the Chanaanite, and the Pherezite into their hands: and they slew of them in Bezec ten thousand men.
And when he was gone out, the servants of the came and saw, and behold, the doors of the upper-chamber were bolted. And they said, Surely he is covering his feet in the summer chamber.
wherefore I was grieved with that generation, and said, always do they go astray in heart, and these have not known My ways;
and over it cherubim of glory, overshadowing the mercy-seat, concerning which we are not now to speak particularly.
And David and his men came to the city, and behold, it was burnt with fire; and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters were taken captive.
Shall I then take my bread, my water, and my food that I have killed for my shearers, and give it to men who I don't know where they come from?"
But, brothers, take kindly the words which I have said for your profit; for I have not sent you a long letter.
When the men of the city arose early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal was broken down, and the Asherah was cut down that was by it, and the second bull was offered on the altar that was built.
Yahweh said to him, "Surely I will be with you, and you shall strike the Midianites as one man."
And turning away from him to one of the other men, he said the same words: and the people gave him the same answer.
Then Gideon said to God, If you are going to give Israel salvation by my hand, as you have said,
and I have raised up for Me a stedfast priest; as in My heart and in My soul he doth do; and I have built for him a stedfast house, and he hath walked up and down before Mine anointed all the days;
His master answered him: I will not go into the village of another nation, who are not of the children of Israel, but I will pass over to Gabaa:
And David departed thence, and escaped to the cave of Adullam. And his brethren and all his father's house heard , and they went down thither to him.
And David went thence to Mizpeh of Moab: and he said unto the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother, I pray thee, come forth, and be with you, till I know what God will do for me.
But the hair of his head began to grow after he was shaved.
and may we consider one another to provoke to love and to good works,
But Sihon did not trust Israel to cross through his territory, so Sihon gathered all his people and then encamped in Jahaz; and he made war with Israel.
The hand of the Midianites prevailed over Israel; because of the presence of Midian, Israel made for themselves hiding places that were in the mountains, caves, and strongholds.
But I have all, and exceedingly: I am filled, having received from Epaphroditus the things you sent, an odor of sweetness, an acceptable sacrifice, pleasing to God.
If then you have done what is true and upright to Jerubbaal and his family this day, may you have joy in Abimelech, and may he have joy in you;
but thou shalt not cut off thy kindness from my house for ever, no, not when even Jehovah, cuts off the enemies of David, every one from the face of the earth.
to those who were in Hormah, to those who were in Borashan, to those who were in Athach,
Then Jerub-Baal (that is, Gideon) arose early, and all the army that was with him. They were encamped besides the spring of Harod; the camp of Midian was north of the hill of Moreh, in the valley.
And they on the seventh day before the sun went down said to him: What is sweeter than honey? and what is stronger than a lioness, And he said to them: If you had not ploughed with my heifer; you had not found out my riddle.
But call to mind the former days, wherein, being illuminated, you endured a great fight of afflictions.
And Samuel did as Jehovah said and came to Beth-lehem. And the responsible men of the village came out to him in fear and said, Do you come in peace?
The rulers ceased in Israel. They ceased until I, Deborah arose; Until I arose a mother in Israel.
Now these things being thus ordered, into the first tent the priests indeed always entered, accomplishing the officers of sacrifices.
and Samson said to the boy who held him by the hand, "Allow me to feel the pillars whereupon the house rests, that I may lean on them."
But when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, Jehovah raised them up a deliverer, Ehud the son of Gera, the Benjamite, a man lefthanded: and by him the children of Israel sent a present unto Eglon the king of Moab.
And Ehud made him a sword having two edges, it was of a cubit length; and he girded it under his raiment upon his right hip.
And the men of David say unto him, `Lo, the day of which Jehovah said unto thee, Lo, I am giving thine enemy into thy hand, and thou hast done to him as it is good in thine eyes;' and David riseth and cutteth off the skirt of the upper robe which on Saul -- gently.
Who in the days of his flesh, when he had offered up prayers and supplications with strong crying and tears unto him that was able to save him from death, and was heard in that he fear;
And they stand each in his place, round about the camp, and all the camp runneth, and they shout, and flee;
But Madian was humbled before the children of Israel, neither could they any more lift up their beads: but the land rested for forty years, while Gedeon presided.
Now while she was going down under cover of the mountain on her ass, David and his men came down against her, and suddenly she came face to face with them.
And Jehovah said to Gedeon: By the three hundred men, that lapped water, I will save you, and deliver Madian into thy hand: but let all the rest of the people return to their place.
And Samuel said, Hath Jehovah as great delight in burnt-offerings and sacrifices, as in your obedience to the voice of Jehovah? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams.
According to the law, nearly everything is cleansed with blood, and apart from shedding of blood there is no remission.
and so, having patiently endured, he did obtain the promise),
And they sat down, and ate and drank, both of them together. And the damsel's father said to the man, Be pleased, I pray thee, and pass the night, and let thy heart be glad.
And Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said to him, Son of the perverse rebellious woman, do not I know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thine own shame and to the shame of thy mother's nakedness?
And after him hath been Shamgar son of Anath, and he smiteth the Philistines -- six hundred men -- with an ox-goad, and he saveth -- he also -- Israel.
And the woman had a fat calf in the house; and she hasted and killed it, and took dough, and kneaded it, and baked unleavened bread thereof;
Wherein God, meaning more abundantly to show to the heirs of the promise the immutability of his counsel, interposed an oath:
When he had caused the tribe of Benjamin to come near by their families, the family of Matri was taken, and Saul the son of Kish was taken: and when they sought him, he could not be found.
Then went he also to Ramah, and came to a great well that is in Sechu: and he asked and said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, Behold, they be at Naioth in Ramah.
As they were going down to the end of the city, Samuel said to Saul, Tell the servant to pass on before us (and he passed on), but stand thou still now, that I may cause thee to hear the word of God.
The men of Israel turned in the battle, and Benjamin began to strike and kill of the men of Israel about thirty persons; for they said, "Surely they are struck down before us, as in the first battle."
And Saul saith to his young man, `And lo, we go, and what do we bring in to the man? for the bread hath gone from our vessels, and a present there is not to bring in to the man of God -- what with us?'
according to zeal persecuting the assembly! according to righteousness that is in law becoming blameless!
Now on the day after, when the Philistines came to take their goods from the dead, they saw Saul and his three sons dead on the earth in Mount Gilboa.
And the Spirit of Yahweh rushed upon him, and he tore the lion apart as one might tear apart a male male goat (he was bare-handed). But he did not tell his father and mother what he had done.
(Now the children of Benjamin had word that the children of Israel had gone up to Mizpah.) And the children of Israel said, Make clear how this evil thing took place.
And Saul said unto his servants, Get me now a man that can play well, and bring him to me.
For it is testified, "You are a priest forever according to the ordinance of Melchizedek."
Abimelech fought against the city all that day, and he captured the city and killed the people that were in it; then he broke down the city and sowed it with salt.
And Gideon went up by the way of them that dwelt in tents on the east of Nobah and Jogbehah, and smote the host; for the host was secure.
Jehovah judge between me and thee, and Jehovah avenge me of thee; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
Having therefore a great high priest that hath passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God; let us hold fast our confession.
Saul said, "Listen please, son of Ahitub." He said, "Here I am, my lord."
And Manoah said unto the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name, that, when thy words come to pass we may do thee honor?
And as for me, far be it from me that I should sin against Yahweh in ceasing to pray for you; but I will instruct you in the good and the right way.
For every high priest is appointed to offer both gifts and sacrifices. Therefore it is necessary that this high priest also have something to offer.
and Saul seeth that he is acting very wisely, and is afraid of him,
And Isai brought Samma, and he said of him; Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
And the descendants of Dan set up for themselves the graven divine image, and Jonathan son of Gershom, son of Manasseh, he and his sons were priests for the tribe of the Danites until the time of the captivity of the land.
And David saith, `Jehovah liveth; except Jehovah doth smite him, or his day come that he hath died, or into battle he go down, and hath been consumed --
And Gilead's wife bare him sons; and his wife's sons grew up, and they thrust out Jephthah, and said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit in our father's house; for thou art the son of a foreign woman.
And there was no deliverer, because it was far from Sidon, and they had no business with any man; and it was in the valley that lieth by Bethrehob. And they built a city, and dwelt therein.
And it cometh to pass, on that night, that even Jehovah, saith to him, `Take the young ox which to thy father, and the second bullock of seven years, and thou hast thrown down the altar of Baal which to thy father, and the shrine which by it thou dost cut down,
and he bringeth near the present to Eglon king of Moab, and Eglon a very fat man.
but with whom was He grieved forty years? was it not with those who sinned, whose carcasses fell in the wilderness?
Consider and see all his lurking holes, wherein he is bid, and return to me with the certainty of the thing, that I may go with you. And if be should even go down into the earth to hide himself, I will search him out in all the thousands of Juda.
who had the golden censer, and the ark of the covenant overlaid round about with gold, wherein was the golden pot that had manna, and Aaron's rod that budded, and the tables of the covenant;
And after him, Abdon son of Hillel, the Pirathonite, judgeth Israel,
And the cook took up the shoulder, and that which was upon it, and set it before Saul. And Samuel said, Behold that which is left! set it before thee, and eat: for unto this time hath it been kept for thee since I said, I have invited the people. So Saul did eat with Samuel that day.
The children of Israel asked Yahweh (for the ark of the covenant of God was there in those days,
He said to them, "Thus and thus hast Micah dealt with me, and he hast hired me, and I am become his priest."
Israel was brought very low because of Midian: and the children of Israel cried to Yahweh.
When your fathers put me to the test, and saw my works for forty years.
And they declare to David, saying, `Lo, the Philistines are fighting against Keilah, and they are destruction the threshing-floors.'
Then one of the people said to him, Your father put peoples under an oath, saying, Let that man be cursed who takes any food this day. And the people were feeble, needing food.
And he came to the sheepfolds by the way, where was a cave; and Saul went in to cover his feet; and David and his men were abiding in the recesses of the cave.
neither through blood of goats and calves, but through his own blood, did enter in once into the holy places, age-during redemption having obtained;
So Yahweh sent Jerub-Baal and Bedan and Jephthah and Samuel. Then he delivered you from the hand of your enemies all around, and you lived in security.
let us approach with a true heart in the full assurance of faith, our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water.
Delilah said to Samson, "Look, you have mocked me and told me lies. Please tell me how you can be bound."
not having my righteousness, which of law, but that which through faith of Christ -- the righteousness that is of God by the faith,
And Nahash the Ammonite cometh up, and encampeth against Jabesh-Gilead, and all the men of Jabesh say unto Nahash, `Make with us a covenant, and we serve thee.'
And the children of Judah besieging Jerusalem, took it, and put it to the sword, and set the city on fire.
But without faith [it is] impossible to please . For he that draws near to God must believe that he is, and he is a rewarder of them that seek him out.
So they crossed over and went their way, and the sun went down on them besides Gibeah, which belongs to Benjamin.
so that what you can be proud of may increase in Christ Jesus because of me through my return again to you.
In part, in being attacked by angry words and cruel acts, before the eyes of everyone, and in part, in being united with those who were attacked in this way.
David went out wherever Saul sent him, and behaved himself wisely; and Saul set him over the men of war. It was good in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants.
Make you perfect in every good work to do his will, working in you that which is wellpleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ; to whom be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
I go forward to the Consider, even the reward of the high purpose of God in Christ Jesus.
Then Israel sent men to the king of Edom saying, Let me now go through your land; but the king of Edom did not give ear to them. And in the same way he sent to the king of Moab, but he would not; so Israel went on living in Kadesh.
And the people of Israel said to one another, Who will be the first to make an attack on the children of Ammon? We will make him head over all Gilead.
According to the number of the provinces of the Philistines you shall make five golden emerods, and five golden mice: for the same plague hath been upon you all, and upon your lords. And you shall make the likeness of your emerods, and the likeness of the mice that have destroyed the land, and you shall give glory to the God of Israel: to see if he will take off his hand from you, and from your gods, and from your land.
For to Abraham God, having made promise, seeing He was able to swear by no greater, did swear by Himself,
And word was given to Saul that David was at Naioth in Ramah.
The angel of Yahweh appeared to him and said to him, "Yahweh is with you, you mighty warrior."
And, so to speak, even Levi, the one who receives tithes, hast paid tithes through Abraham.
But after a while, in the time of wheat harvest, Samson visited his wife with a young goat. He said, "I will go in to my wife's room." But her father wouldn't know him to go in.
So the anger of Yahweh was kindled against Israel, and he gave them into the hand of plunderers; and they plundered them, and he sold them into the hand of their enemies from all part. They were unable to withstand their enemies any longer.
he again defines a certain day, today, saying through David so long a time afterward (just as hast been said), "Today if you will hear his voice, don't harden your hearts."
and it cometh to pass, when the Bene-Ammon have fought with Israel, that the elders of Gilead go to take Jephthah from the land of Tob;
since it had behoved him many times to suffer from the foundation of the world, but now once, at the full end of the generations for ever and ever. for putting away of sin through his sacrifice, he hath been manifested;
So then look! Here is the king you have chosen, for whom you have asked! Look, Yahweh hast placed a king over you!
The remnants of the peoples are saved, Jehovah hath fought among the valiant ones.
The children of Ammon passed over the the Jordan to fight also against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim, so that Israel was very distressed.
Do I lack madmen, that you have brought this fellow to play the madman in my presence? Should this man come into my house?"
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
For the one who hast entered into his rest hast also himself rested from his works, just as God did from his own works.
And when they told it to Jotham, he went and stood in the top of mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said unto them, Hearken unto me, ye men of Shechem, that God may hearken unto you.
Then the men of the city said unto Joash, Bring out thy son, that he may die: because he hath cast down the altar of Baal, and because he hath cut down the Asherah that was by it.
So Saul sent messengers to capture David. And when they saw the company of the prophets prophesying and Samuel standing as chief over them, then the Spirit of God came upon Saul's messengers, and they also prophesied.
And I chose him from all the tribes of Israel to be a priest to me, to go up to my altar, to burn incense, and to bear an ephod before me. I gave to the house of your ancestor all the offerings made by fire by the Israelites.
Saul was told, saying, "Behold, David is at Naioth in Ramah."
And make straight paths for your feet, lest that which is lame be turned out of the way; but let it rather be healed.
The chiefs of all the people, even of all the tribes of Israel, presented themselves in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen who drew sword.
And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
And the lords of Shechem set for him ambushes on the top of the mountains, and they robbed all who passed by them by the road; and it was reported to Abimelech.
The children of Benjamin sallied forth out of the gates of Gabaa: and meeting them made a great slaughter of them, as to kill eighteen thousand men that drew the sword.
And the sons of Saul are Jonathan, and Ishui, and Melchi-Shua; as to the name of his two daughters, the name of the first-born Merab, and the name of the younger Michal;
"The bows of the mighty men are broken. those who stumbled are armed with strength.
Therefore David learned of Yahweh, saying, "Shall I go and strike these Philistines?" Yahweh said to David, "Go strike the Philistines, and save Keilah."
and all the men of valor arise, and go all the night, and take the body of Saul, and the bodies of his sons, from the wall of Beth-Shan, and come in to Jabesh, and burn them there,
Is it not wheat harvest to-day? I will call unto Jehovah, and he will send thunder and rain; that ye may perceive and see that your wickedness is great, which ye have done in the sight of Jehovah, in asking you a king.
Hills flowed from the face of Jehovah, This one -- Sinai -- From the face of Jehovah, the God of Israel.
All the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and were terrified.
And a man of the people answereth and saith, `Thy father certainly adjured the people, saying, Cursed the man who eateth food to-day; and the people are weary.'
and Abimelech goeth up to mount Zalmon, he and all the people who with him, and Abimelech taketh the great axe in his hand, and Cutteth off a boughs of the trees, and lifteth it up, and setteth on his shoulder, and saith unto the people who with him, `What ye have seen I have done -- haste, do ye like it.'
Nevertheless whereunto we are come, that we are of the same mind, let us also continue in the same rule.
partly, being exposed to both reproaches and oppressions; and partly, becoming partakers with those who were treated so.
For surely that our Lord sprang out of Judah; of which tribe Moses spake nothing concerning priesthood.
because God had provided something better for us, so that they would not be made perfect without us.
in which God, more abundantly desiring to show to the heirs of the promise the immutability of his counsel, did interpose by an oath,
Yahweh kills and restores alive, he brings down to Sheol and raises up.
By faith, Moses, when he had grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter,
And when the burned oblation was ended, Samuel came; and Saul went out to see him and to give him a blessing.
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and to-day and forever.
among all this people seven hundred chosen men, bound of their right hand, each of these slinging with a stone at the hair, and he doth not err.
There was also another young man of Beth-lehem Joda, of the family thereof: and he was a Levite, and dwelt there.
For I have no one like-minded who will sincerely be concerned about your circumstances.
They that were full before have hired out themselves for bread: and the hungry are filled, so that the barren hath borne many: and she that had many children is weakened.
Then the children of Ammon came together and put their army in position in Gilead. And the children of Israel came together and put their army in position in Mizpah.
Now the time came when Hannah, being with child, gave birth to a son; and she gave him the name Samuel, Because, she said, I made a prayer to Jehovah for him.
But without faith it is impossible to please God. For he that cometh to God, must believe that he is, and is a rewarder to them that seek him.
So David stayed his servants with these words, and suffered them not to rise against Saul. But Saul rose up out of the cave, and went on his way.
So Elkanah her husband would say to her: "Hannah, why do you weep and why do you not eat? And why are you heartsick? Am I not better to you than ten sons?"
Then the king said to Doeg, You are to put the priests to death. And Doeg the Edomite, turning on the priests and attacking them, put to death that day eighty-five men who took up the ephod.
And the Philistine came near every morning and evening for forty days.
Then the Israelites said to Samuel, "You must not cease from crying out to Yahweh our God, so that he will deliver us from the hand of the Philistines."
And Samuel saith unto Saul, `Thou hast been foolish; thou hast not kept the command of Jehovah thy God, who He commanded thee, for now had even Jehovah, established thy kingdom over Israel unto the age;
Adoni-Bezek said, "Seventy kings, having their thumb and their big toes cut off, scavenged under my table. As I have done, so God hast done to me." They brought him to Jerusalem, and he died there.
Now when Joshua had sent the people away, the children of Israel each went to his inheritance to possess the land.
And the king of the children of Ammon said to the messengers of Jephthah, Because Israel took away my land, when they came up out of Egypt, from the the Arnon even unto the Jabbok and unto the Jordan; and now restore it peaceably.
Then behold, an old man was coming from his work from the field in the evening, and the man was from the hill-country of Ephraim, and he was dwelling as a sojourner in Gibeah. (The people of the place were descendants of Benjamin.)
and the princes of the Philistines were gathered together to sacrifice a great sacrifice to Dagon their god, and to rejoice; and they say, `Our god hath given into our hand Samson our enemy.'
Is this not David, who was named in their songs, when in the dance they said to one another, Saul hast put to death thousands, and David tens of thousands?
Thus if perfection was through the Levitical priesthood, for on the basis of it the people received the law, what further need is there for another priest to arise according to the ordinance of Melchizedek and not said to be according to the ordinance of Aaron?
But you to-day have rejected your God who always delivers you from all of your calamity and your distresses. You have said to him, 'No, but you must appoint a king over us!' So then present yourselves before Yahweh by your tribes and by your clans."
If in any way I may have the reward of life from the dead.
After him Ibzan of Beth-lehem judged Israel.
And the old man said, Peace be with thee; howsoever let all thy wants lie upon me; only lodge not in the street.
It was so, when Gideon heard the telling of the dream, and itself interpretation, that he worshiped. Then he returned into the camp of Israel, and said, "Arise; for Yahweh hast delivered the army of Midian into your hand!"
For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain:
And even Jehovah, turneth unto him and saith, `Go in this -- thy power; and thou hast saved Israel out of the hand of Midian -- have not I sent thee.'
those who strive with Yahweh shall be broken in pieces. He will thunder against them in the skies. "Yahweh will judge the ends of the earth. He will give strength to his king, and exalt the horn of his anointed."
since he had a longing desire after you all, and was distressed because ye had heard that he was sick;
By faith, we understand that the universe hast been formed by the word of God, so that what is seen hast not been made out of things which are visible.
Samuel said, "Has Yahweh as great delight in burnt-offerings and sacrifices, as in your obedience Yahweh's voice? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to listen than the fat of rams.
And the asses of Kish, father of Saul, are lost, and Kish saith unto Saul his son, `Take, I pray thee, with thee, one of the young men, and arise, go, seek asses.'
And the moment he saw her, he tore his clothes and said, "Ah! My daughter, you have caused me to bow down and you have become my trouble. I made an oath to Yahweh, and I cannot take it back."
So Saul learned of God, "Should I go down after the Philistines? Will you give them into the hand of Israel?" But he did not answer him on that day.
if thy father at all look after me, and thou hast said, David asked earnestly of me to run to Beth-Lehem his city, for a sacrifice of the days there for all the family.
And there was nothing missing small or great, neither of their sons and their daughters, nor of the spoils, and whatsoever they had taken: David recovered all.
and Saul dieth, and three of his sons, and the bearer of his weapons, also all his men, on that day together.
And David said to Jonathan: Behold, to-morrow is the new moon, and I according to custom am wont to sit besides the king to eat: let me go then that I may be hid in the field till the evening of the third day.
And they say to him, `To bind thee we have come down -- to give thee into the hand of the Philistines.' And Samson saith to them, `Swear to me, lest ye fall upon me yourselves.'
And when his servants had told David the words that Saul had said, the word was pleasing in the eyes of David to be the king's son in law.
Know that our brother Timothy is set at freedom; with whom, if he should come soon, I will see you.
Now therefore, if ye have dealt truly and sincerely in that ye have made Abimelech king, and if ye have dealt well with Jerubbaal and his house, and if ye have done to him according to the deserving of his hands;
And there was in the midst of the city a high tower, to which both the men and the women were fled together, and all the princes of the city, and having shut and strongly barred the gate, they stood upon the battlements of the tower to defend themselves.
Now therefore hearken unto their voice: howbeit yet protest solemnly unto them, and show them the manner of the king that shall reign over them.
For as long as the son of Jesse lives upon earth, thou shalt not be established nor thy kingdom. And now send and fetch him to me, for he must die.
And when the Philistine looked, and beheld David, he despised him. For he was a young man, ruddy, and of comely countenance.
And they turned and departed, and put the little ones and the cattle and the baggage before them.
It came to pass soon afterwards, that he loved a woman in the valley of Sorek, whose name was Delilah.
But they were false to Jehovah their God, and he gave them up into the hands of Sisera, captain of the army of Jabin, king of Hazor, and into the hands of the Philistines, and into the hands of the king of Moab, who made war against them.
And he said to David: Thou art more righteous than I: for thou hast done good to me, and I have rewarded thee with evil.
And they cried to Jehovah, and said: We have sinned against thee, because we have forsaken Jehovah our God, and have served the Baalim.
But Sihon trusted not Israel, to let him pass through his border, and Sihon gathered all his people, and they encamped in Jahzah; and he fought with Israel.
But Christ hast arrived as a high priest of the good things to come. Through the greater and more perfect tent not made by hands, that is, not of this creation,
After awhile, when their hearts were merry they said, "Call Samson and let him entertain us." And they called Samson from the prison, and he entertained them. And they made him stand between the pillars.
And David sent out ten young men, and David said unto the young men, Get you up to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and salute him in my name:
And David took the spear and the cruse of water from Saul's head; and they went away, and no man saw , and none knew , and none awaked, for they were all asleep; for a deep sleep from Jehovah had fallen upon them.
And year by year, whenever she went up to the house of Jehovah, she kept on attacking her, so that Hannah gave herself up to the weeping and would take no food.
Now therefore, go up by night, you and the people who are with you, and lie in wait in the field.
On the next day the people went out to the field; and it was reported to Abimelech,
But Saul said nothing on that day, for he thought, "Something happened to him. He is not ceremonially clean; surely he is not clean."
And Samson lieth down till the middle of the night, and riseth in the middle of the night, and layeth hold on the doors of the gate of the city, and on the two side-posts, and removeth them with the bar, and putteth on his shoulders, and taketh them up unto the top of the ascent, which on before Hebron.
And Gideon, and the hundred men that were with him, came to the outside of the camp in the beginning of the middle watch; and they had but newly set the watch; and they blew the trumpets, and broke the pitchers that were in their hands.
Then David said to Achish, If now I have favor in your eyes, let me have a place in one of the smaller towns of your land, to be my living-place; for it is not right for your servant to be living with you in the king's town.
And the king said, Thou shalt surely die, Ahimelech, thou, and all thy father's house.
And there is a man of Benjamin, and his name Kish, son of Abiel, son of Zeror, son of Bechorath, son of Aphiah, the Benjamite, mighty of valor,
And they said, There must be a possession for those of Benjamin that have escaped, that a tribe be not blotted out of Israel.
By faith he lived in the land of promise as a sojourner, living in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the fellow heirs of the same promise.
Saul said, "Bring the burnt-offering to me here, and the peace offerings." He offered burnt-offering.
But his father and his mother knew not that it was of Jehovah, that he sought an occasion against the Philistines. for at that time the Philistines had dominion over Israel.
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel that came not up with the assembly unto Jehovah? For they had made a great oath concerning him that came not up to Jehovah to Mizpeh, saying, He shall surely be put to death.
I have had word that you have wool-cutters: now the keepers of your sheep have been with us, and we have done them no evil, and taken nothing of theirs while they were in Carmel.
When you go you will come to an unsuspecting people, and the land is spread out on all sides; God hast given a place into your hands where there is no lack of anything that is on the earth."
For it was becoming to him, because of whom the all things, and through whom all things, many sons to glory bringing, a God of their salvation through sufferings to make perfect,
I am able to do all things by the one who strengthens me.
Now Jehovah had revealed to the ear of Samuel the day before Saul came, speaking:
After saying, You had no desire for heave-offerings, for burned offerings or offerings for sin (which are made by the law) and you had no pleasure in them,
And in this case mortal men receive tithes, but in that case it is testified that he lives.
And Jehovah sent fear on Sisera and all his war-carriages and all his army before Barak; and Sisera got down from his war-carriage and went in flight on foot.
They were going up the ascent of the village when they found young women going out to draw water. They said to them, "Is there the seer here?"
When Saul and all Israel heard the words of the Philistine, they were dismayed, and greatly afraid.
And all that had known him yesterday and the day before, seeing that he was with the prophets, and prophesied, said to each other: What is this that hath happened to the son of Cis? Is Saul also among the prophets?
And having this confidence I know that I shall abide, and continue with you all, for your furtherance and joy of faith:
Then the trees said to the fig tree, 'You, come rule over us.'
And David's young men turned their way, and went back, and came and reported to him according to all these words.
Yahweh's angel said to Manoah, "Of all that I said to the woman let her beware.
And David knoweth that against him Saul is devising the evil, and saith unto Abiathar the priest, `Bring nigh the ephod.'
Now therefore, don't let my blood fall to the earth away from the presence of Yahweh; for the king of Israel hast come out to seek a flea, as when one hunts a partridge that in the mountains."
Then Samuel took a bowl of oil, and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Is it because Jehovah hath anointed thee to be prince over his inheritance?
But on the fourth day arose early in the morning he sought to depart. But his father-in-law kept him, and said to him: Taste first a little bread, and strengthen thy stomach, and so thou shalt depart.
And the woman hath a calf of the stall in the house, and she hasteth and slaughtereth it, and taketh flour, and kneadeth, and baketh it unleavened things,
and have fallen away, crucifying for themselves [as they do] the Son of God, and making a show of .
For in that which he himself suffered when he was tempted, he is able to help those who are tempted.
and I trust in Jehovah that I myself also shall quickly come.
And when Samuel arose early, to go to Saul in the morning, it was told Samuel, that Saul was come to Carmel, and had erected for himself a triumphant arch, and returning had passed on, and gone down to Galgal. And Samuel came to Saul, and Saul was offering a holocaust to Jehovah out of the choicest of the spoil which he had brought from Amalec.
And by as much as this was not without an oath (for these on the one hand have become priests without an oath,
By faith Rahab, the loose woman, was not put to death with those who had gone against God's orders, because she had taken into her house in peace those sent to see the land.
The children of Israel again did that which was evil in Yahweh's sight, when Ehud was dead.
But someone testified somewhere, saying, "What is man, that you remember him, or the son of man, that you care for him?
The men of Kiriath Jearim came and brought up the ark of Yahweh, and they brought it to the house of Abinadab in Gibeah. They consecrated Eleazer his son to guard the ark of Yahweh.
By faith, Enoch was taken away, so that he wouldn't see death, and he was not found, because God translated him. For he hast had testimony given to him that before his translation he had been well pleasing to God.
I prayed for this child; and Yahweh hast given me my petition which I asked of him.
Then David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice and wept, until they had no more power to weep.
And delivered you out of the hands of the Egyptians, and of all the enemies that afflicted you: and I cast them out at your coming in, and gave you their land.
David behaved himself wisely in all his ways; and Yahweh was with him.
Then Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house to Gibeah of Saul.
But of the Son he says, Your seat of power, O God, is for ever and ever; and the rod of your kingdom is a rod of righteousness.
And all the townsmen of Shechem and all Beth-millo came together and went and made Abimelech their king, by the oak of the pillar in Shechem.
And when the children of Ammon made war against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to fetch Jephthah out of the land of Tob.
Therefore, if there is any encouragement in Christ, if any consolation of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any affection and compassion,
And whenever Israel sowed seed, Midian, Amalekites, and the people of the east would come up against them.
(for those priests were made without an oath, but this with an oath by him that said unto him, Jehovah sware and will not repent: Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchisedec:)
and the one detachment turneth the way of Beth-Horon, and the one detachment turneth the way of the border which is looking on the valley of the Zeboim, toward the wilderness.
And the assembly sent thither twelve thousand men of the Most valiant and charged them, saying, Go and smite the inhabitants of Jabesh-Gilead with the edge of the sword, and the women and the children.
far be it from me, by Jehovah, from putting forth my hand against the anointed of Jehovah; and, now, take, I pray thee, the spear which at his pillow, and the cruse of water, and we go away.'
And when Delilah saw that he had told her all his heart, she sent and called for the lords of the Philistines, saying, Come up this once, for he hath showed me all his heart. Then the lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and brought money in their hand.
In a very little time he who is coming will come; he will not be slow.
Then the Israelites got up and went up to Beth-el, and they learned of God, saying, "Who will go up first for the battle against the descendants of Benjamin?" And Yahweh said, "Judah will go first."
Now where there is remission of these, there is no more oblation for sin.
But the spirit of Jehovah came on Gideon; and at the sound of his horn all Abiezer came together after him.
And now I am certain that you will be king, and that the kingdom of Israel will be made strong under your authority.
And they said, Up! and let us go against Laish; for we have seen the land, and it is very good; why are you doing nothing? Do not be slow to go in and take the land for your heritage.
And a garrison of the Philistines went out to the passage of Michmash.
But I would have you know, brethren, that the circumstances in which I am have turned out rather to the furtherance of the glad tidings,
And there was nothing missed by them, neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, neither spoil nor anything that they had taken: David brought all back.
And Saul saw, and understood that Jehovah was with David. And Michol the daughter of Saul loved him.
And he said unto them, Why do ye such things? for I hear of your evil works from all this people.
And he gave back the eleven hundred shekels of silver to his mother, and his mother said, I have made the silver holy to Jehovah from me for my son, to make a pictured image and a metal image.
And even Jehovah, saith unto Samuel, `Hearken to the voice of the people, to all that they say unto thee, for thee they have not rejected, but Me they have rejected, from reigning over them.
And the people served Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, who had seen all the great works of Jehovah, that he did for Israel.
And Judah went up, and Yahweh gave the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hand, and they defeated ten thousand men at Bezek.
Then Jonathan made a covenant with David, because he loved him as his own soul.
All the saints send their love to you, specially those who are of Caesar's house.
Manoah arose, and followed his wife, and came to the man, and said to him, "Are you the man who spoke to my wife?" He said, "I am."
and Jesse took an ass with bread, and a flask of wine, and a kid, and sent by David his son to Saul.
As they went up the ascent to the city, they met maidens going forth to draw water; and they said to them, Is the seer here?
And I will shoot three arrows near it, and will shoot as if I were exercising myself at a mark.
Then Saul went Samuel in the middle of the gate and said, "Please tell me, where is the house of seer?"
and having been perfected, became to all them that obey him, God of eternal salvation;
And the wrath of Jehovah was burning against Israel, and he gave them up into the hands of those who violently took their property, and into the hands of their haters all round them, so that they were forced to give way before them.
Saying: Unless blessing I shall bless thee, and multiplying I shall multiply thee.
For this man was counted worthy of more glory than Moses, inasmuch as he who hath builded the house hath more honor than the house.
And David saw that Saul was come out to seek his life; and David was in the wilderness of Ziph in a wood.
He had a son named Saul, a specially good-looking young man; there was no one better-looking among the children of Israel; he was taller by a head than any other of the people.
Now the phrase "yet once more" indicates the removal of what is shaken, namely, things that have been created, in order that the things that are not shaken may remain.
And whenever Israel's grain was planted, the Midianites and the Amalekite and the people of the east came up against them;
For the same cause also do ye joy, and rejoice with me.
The five rulers of the Philistines saw it and returned to Ekron that same day.
By faith they went through the Red Sea as if it had been dry land, though the Egyptians were overcome by the water when they made an attempt to do the same.
Now there was a man of the hill-country of Ephraim named Micah.
so that we do boldly say, `The Lord to me a helper, and I will not fear what man shall do to me.'
Finally, brothers, whatever things are true, whatever things are honorable, whatever things are right, whatever things are pure, whatever things are pleasing, whatever things are commendable, if there is any excellence of character and if anything praiseworthy, think about these things.
And it came to pass, when she pressed him daily with its words, and urged him, so that his soul was vexed unto death;
But the people took some of their goods, sheep and oxen, the chief of the things which were put to the curse, to make an offering of them to Jehovah your God in Gilgal.
Grace be with you all.
If ye fear Jehovah, and serve him, and hearken to his voice, and rebel not against the commandment of Jehovah, then both ye and the king also that reigns over you shall continue following Jehovah your God.
So that all who fell that day of Benjamin were twenty-five thousand men that drew the sword: all these, men of valor.
Now the Philistines were fighting against Israel: and the men of Israel went in flight before the Philistines, falling down wounded in Mount Gilboa.
And the six hundred men took the priest, and the things we spoke of before, and came to Lais to a people that was quiet and secure, and smote them with the edge of the sword; and the city was burnt with fire,
For where a covenant is, there must also of necessities be the death of the testator.
And Jephthah judged Israel six years. And Jephthah the Gileadite died, and was buried in [one of] the cities of Gilead.
And Barak called together Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh; and there went up at his feet ten thousand men; and Deborah went up with him.
Swear now therefore to me by Yahweh, that you will not cut off my offspring after me, and that you will not destroy my name out of my father's house."
Zebulun did not drive out the inhabitants of Kitron or Nahalol, so the Canaanites lived in their midst and became subjected to forced labor.
And Micah saith to him, `Dwell with me, and be to me for a father and for a priest, and I give to thee ten silverlings for the days, and a suit of garments, and thy sustenance;' and the Levite goeth .
that night Jehovah said to him: Take a bullock of thy father's, and another bullock of seven years, and thou shalt destroy the altar of Baal, which is thy father's: and cut down the Asherah that is about the altar:
And falling at his feet she said, May the wrong be on me, my lord, on me; let your servant say a word to you, and give ear to the words of your servant.
Elkanah her husband said to her, "Hannah, why do you weep? Why don't you eat? Why is your heart grieved? Am I not better to you than ten sons?"
for of patience ye have need that the will of God having done, ye may receive the promise,
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and forgot Jehovah their God, and served the Baals and the Asherahs.
And he went from year to year in vault to Beth-el, and Gilgal, and Mizpeh, and judged Israel in all those places.
So Samuel told him all the words, and did not hide them from him. And he answered: It is Jehovah; let him do what is good in his sight.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came rushing on him, and he went down to Ashkelon and, attacking thirty men there, took their clothing from them, and gave it to the men who had given the answer to his hard question. Then, full of wrath, he went back to his father's house.
And Manoah said to the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name, that, when thy word cometh to pass we may do thee honor?
Then one of the people answered, and said, "Your father directly commanded the people with an oath, saying, 'Cursed is the man who eats food today.'" The people were faint.
So he took the people down to the water; and Jehovah said to Gideon, Put on one side by themselves all those drinking up the water with their tongues like a dog; and in the same way, all those who go down on their knees to the water while drinking.
And the responsible men of Gilead said to Jephthah, May Jehovah be our witness; we will certainly do as you say.
`Lo, days coming, and I have cut off thine arm, and the arm of the house of thy father, that an old man is not in thy house;
Then Saul commanded his servants, "Speak to David in secret, saying, 'Look, the king is pleased with you, and all his servants love you. So then, become a son-in-law of the king.'"
And the idol of Michas remained with them all the time that the house of God was in Silo. In those days there was no king in Israel.
But indeed, as even Jehovah, the God of Israel liveth, who hast restrained me from hurting thee, except thou hadst hasted and come to meet me, there had not been left to Nabal by the morning light any male,
Saul summoned all the people to war, to go down to Keilah, to besiege David and his men.
And when Gaal saw the people, he said to Zebul, See! people are coming down from the tops of the mountains. And Zebul said to him, You see the shade of the mountains like men.
So then, are you any better than Balak son of Zippor, king of Moab? Did he ever quarrel with Israel, or did he ever make war against them?
When he finished prophesying, he went to the high place.
For we have become partakers of Christ, if we hold fast the beginning of our confidence firm to the end:
And the angel of God said to him, Take the flesh and unleavened wafers, and lay them upon this rock, and pour out the broth. And he did so.
who, existing in the form of God, didn't consider equality with God a thing to be grasped,
And David said, What have I now done? Was it not laid upon me?
And Saul said, Disperse yourselves among the people, and say unto them, Bring me hither every man his ox, and every man his sheep, and slay them here, and eat; and sin not against Jehovah in eating with the blood. And all the people brought every man his ox with him that night, and slew them there.
Then he also went to Ramah. When he came to the great cistern which was in Secu, he asked and said, "Where are Samuel and David?" Someone said, "Look they are in Naioth in Ramah."
Have they not sped? have they not divided the prey; to every man a damsel or two, to Sisera a prey of divers colors, a prey of divers colors of the work of the embroiderer, of divers colors of needlework on both sides, meet for the necks of them that take the spoil?
And they found among the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead four hundred young virgins, that had known no man by lying with any male: and they brought them unto the camp to Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
Lord, when thou wentest out of Seir, when thou marchedst out of the field of Edom, the earth trembled, and the heavens dropped, the clouds also dropped rain water.
Yahweh's angel said to him, "Why do you ask about my name, since it is incomprehensible?"
But to Anna he gave one portion with sorrow, because he loved Anna. And Jehovah had shut up her womb.
having our eyes fixed on Jesus, the guide and end of our faith, who went through the pangs of the cross, not caring for the shame, because of the joy which was before him, and who hast now taken his place at the right hand of God's seat of power.
And the Spirit of Jehovah departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from even Jehovah, troubled him.
And Ehud went out the vestibule, and he closed the doors of the upper room and locked them behind him.
Then Saul said, "Come here, all you leaders of the people, so that we find out what the sin was this day.
Behold, this day thy eyes saw, that Jehovah hath delivered thee into my hand, in the cave, and I had a thought to kill thee, but my eye hath spared thee. For I said: I will not put out my hand against my lord, because he is the Lord's anointed.
And Samuel judgeth Israel all the days of his life
But there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Haste thee, and come; for the Philistines have invaded the land.
And there was great fear in the tents and in the field and among all the men of the armed force, and the attackers were shaking with fear; even the earth was moved with a great shaking and there was a fear as from God.
For the earth that drinketh in the rain which cometh often upon it, and bringeth forth herbs meet for them by whom it is tilled, receiveth blessing from God.
This thing is not good which thou hast done. As Jehovah liveth, ye are worthy to die, because ye have not guarded your master, Jehovah's anointed. And now see where the king's spear is, and the cruse of water that was at his head.
Now the Philistines gathering together their troops to battle, assembled at Socho of Joda, and encamped between Socho and Azeca in the borders of Dommim.
And Saul sware to her by Jehovah, saying, As Jehovah liveth, there shall no punishment happen to thee for this thing.
And Samuel riseth, and goeth up from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin: and Saul inspecteth the people who are found with him, about six hundred men,
And Samson said, Let me die with the Philistines! And he bowed himself with might; and the house fell on the lords, and on all the people that were therein. So the dead that he slew at his death were more than those whom he had slain in his life.
And Samuel told the people the right of the kingdom, and wrote it in the book, and laid it before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my lot, that we may fight against the Canaanites; and I likewise will go with thee into thy lot. So Simeon went with him.
But we are persuaded concerning you, beloved, better things, and connected with salvation, even if we speak shalt thou speak.
but if not, let fire come out from Abimelech, and devour the citizens of Shechem and the house of Millo; and let fire come out from the citizens of Shechem and from the house of Millo, on the way and devour Abimelech.
and having confidence of this, I know that I shall remain and abide along with you all, for your progress and joy in faith;
and he hath gone out, and his servants have come in, and look, and lo, the doors of the upper chamber are bolted, and they say, `He is only covering his feet in the inner chamber of the wall.'
And after a few days David rose up, and went with the men that were under him, and he slew of the Philistines two hundred men, and brought their foreskins and numbered them out to the king, that he might be his son in law. Saul therefore gave him Michol his daughter to wife.
And as for me, never will I go against the orders of Jehovah by giving up my prayers for you; but I will go on teaching you the good and right way.
And Saul cast the javelin; for he said, I will smite David even to the wall with it. And David avoided out of his presence twice.
God hast delivered into your hand the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb! What was I able to do in comparison with you?" Then their anger was abated toward him, when he had said that.
Now Eli was very old, and he heard all that his sons were doing to all Israel and that they were having sexual relations with the women who were serving at the entrance of the tent of assembly.
And having a great priest over the house of God,
Then Eli answered and said, "Go in peace, and may the God of Israel grant your request that you have asked of him."
David smote them from the twilight even to the evening of the next day. not a man of them escaped from there, except four hundred young men, who rode on camels and fled.
I took my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent her throughout all the country of the inheritance of Israel; for they have committed lewdness and folly in Israel.
For let this mind be in you which also in Christ Jesus,
And Othniel son of Kenaz, younger brother of Caleb, doth capture it, and he giveth to him Achsah his daughter for a wife.
And embraced the man. And the son-in-law tarried in the house of his father-in-law three days, eating with him and drinking familiarly.
And Samuel said to him: Jehovah hath rent the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given it to thy neighbor who is better than thee.
So the Philistines were subdued, and they stopped coming within the border of Israel. Yahweh's hand was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And he passed through the hill-country of Ephraim, and passed through the land of Shalishah, but they found not; and they passed through the land of Shaalim, and they were not there; and they passed through the land of Benjamin, and they found not.
And they came unto their brethren to Zorah and Eshtaol: and their brethren said unto them, What say ye?
Now these are the nations which Yahweh left, to test Israel by them, even as many as had not known all the wars of Canaan;
And he inspecteth them in Bezek, and the sons of Israel are three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
And Micah said to him, "Stay with me and be to me a father and a priest, and I will give to you ten pieces of silver a year, a set of clothes, and your food." So the Levite went with him.
We will take ten men of one hundred from all the tribes of Israel, and one hundred of one thousand, and one thousand of ten thousand, to bring provisions to the troops, to repay them when they come to Gibeah of Benjamin for all the disgraceful things they did in Israel."
And Samuel said, Why do you put your questions to me, seeing that God hast gone away from you and is on the side of him who is against you?
And the descendants of Benjamin thought, "They are being defeated before us as previously," and Israel said, "Let us flee and lure them away from the city to the main roads."
of the hospitality be not forgetful, for through this unawares certain did entertain messengers;
Now Deborah a prophetess, the wife of Lappidoth, judged Israel at that time.
A son of a year Saul in his reigning, yea, two years he hath reigned over Israel,
And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
And: Thou in the beginning, O Jehovah, didst found the earth: and the works of thy hands are the heavens.
"Through the window she looked down; the mother of Sisera cried out through the lattice, 'Why is his chariot delayed in coming? Why do the hoof beats of his chariot tarry?'
For, truly, he does not take on the life of angels, but that of the seed of Abraham.
And Saul sent to Jesse saying, Let David be with me, for he is pleasing to me.
Now therefore listen to their voice. However you shall protest solemnly to them, and shall show them the way of the king who will reign over them."
And the Philistines seized him, gouged his eyes, and brought him to Gaza. They tied him up with bronze shackles, and he became a grinder in the prison.
Now the angel of Jehovah came up from Gilgal to Bochim. And he said, *** I took you out of Egypt, guiding you into the land which I gave by an oath to your fathers; and I said, My agreement with you will never be broken by me:
And he said: Wherefore doth my lord persecute his servant? What have I done? or what evil is there in my hand?
And Saul said, Cast between me and Jonathan my son. And Jonathan was taken.
You have not yet resisted to blood, striving against sin;
And he took Agag the king of Amalec alive: but all the common people he slew with the edge of the sword.
Samuel said, "Even though you are small in your own eyes, are you not the head of the tribes of Israel? Yahweh hast anointed you as king over Israel.
All the most valiant men arose, and walked all the night, and took the body of Saul, and the bodies of his sons, from the wall of Bethsan: and they came to Jabes Galaad, and burnt them there:
Why hast thou abode between the boundaries, To hear lowings of herds? For the courses of Reuben, Great the searchings of heart!
And the Philistine said: I have defied the bands of Israel this day: Give me a man, and let him fight with me hand to hand.
So Samuel made prayer to Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day: and all the people were in fear of Jehovah and of Samuel.
Michal, Saul's daughter, loved David; and they told Saul, and the thing pleased him.
And they come down from the high place to the city, and he speaketh with Saul on the roof.
And they go up and encamp in Kirjath-Jearim, in Judah, therefore they have called that place, `Camp of Dan,' till this day; lo, behind Kirjath-Jearim.
Then said Abishai to David, God delivereth thine enemy into thy hand this day: now therefore let me smite him, I pray thee, with the spear even to the earth at once, and I will not smite him the second time.
By faith Joseph dying called to mind the going forth of the sons of Israel, and gave commandment concerning his bones.
Then Samuel said to the people, "Come, and let us go to Gilgal, and renew the kingdom there."
Now the name of his first-born was Joel: and the name of his second, Abijah. They were judges in Beer-sheba.
And Jotham ran away, and fled, and went to Beer, and dwelt there, for fear of Abimelech his brother.
And Samuel doth that which Jehovah hath spoken, and cometh in to Beth-Lehem, and the elders of the city tremble to meet him, and saith, `Is thy coming peace?'
Barak said to her, "If you go with me, I will go; but if you do not go with me, I will not go."
Now there was a man of Benjamin named Kish, the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Becorath, the son of Aphiah, the Benjamite, a man of wealth.
If he say thus, It is well,thy servant shall have peace; but if he be very wroth, be sure that evil is determined by him.
But what then? so that by all means, whether by occasion, or by truth, Christ be preached: in this also I rejoice, yea, and will rejoice.
Because this the covenant that I will covenant to the house of Israel after those days, saith Jehovah: giving my laws into their mind, I will write them also upon their heart; and I will be to them for God, and *they* shall be to me for people.
because I will be merciful to their unrighteousness, and their sins and their lawlessnesses I will remember no more;' --
And Samuel said to the people: It is Jehovah, who made Moses and Aaron, and brought our fathers out of the land of Egypt.
Wherefore it behoved him in all things to be made like to brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things relating to God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people;
They that were full have hired out themselves for bread; and they that were hungry ceased: so that the barren hath born seven, and she that hath many children is waxed of no account.
Yahweh's ark was in the country of the Philistines seven months.
and Saul seeketh to smite with the spear through David, and through the wall, and he freeth himself from the presence of Saul, and he smiteth the spear through the wall; and David hath fled and escapeth during that night.
Women had their dead given back to them living; others let themselves be cruelly attacked, having no desire to go free, so that they might have a better life to come;
For whereas for the time you ought to be masters, you have need to be taught again what are the first rudiments of the words of God: and you are become such as have need of milk, and not of strong food.
For even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again unto my necessity.
For when for the time ye ought to be teachers, ye have need that one teach you again that are the first principles of the oracles of God; and are become such as have need of milk, and not of strong food.
holding forth word of life, so as to be a boast for me in Christ's day, that I have not run in vain nor labored in vain.
He brought them before the king of Moab; and they lived with him all the time that David was in the stronghold.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried out with a loud voice, and said to Saul: Why hast thou deceived me? for thou art Saul.
And they said: In the morning we will come out to you: and you shall do what you please with us.
And on the third day it will be specially noted, and you will go to the place where you took cover when the other business was in hand, waiting by the hill over there.
Saul said to Ahiah, "Bring God's ark here." For God's ark was with the children of Israel at that time.
Pray for us. For we trust we have a good conscience being desiring to behave ourselves well in all things.
Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into the guest chamber, and made them sit in the best place among those who were invited, who were about thirty persons.
And they said to him, "Keep quiet! Put your hand on your mouth and come with us and be for us a father and a priest. Is it better being a priest for a house of one man or being a priest for a tribe and clan in Israel?"
And it cometh to pass, when David completeth to speak these words unto Saul, that Saul saith, `Is this thy voice, my son David?' and Saul lifteth up his voice, and weepeth.
He sent ten young men, and said to them: Go up to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and salute him in my name with peace.
(and the cook lifteth up the train, and that which on it, and setteth before Saul), and he saith, `Lo, that which is left; set before thee -- eat, for to this appointed season it is kept for thee, saying, The people I have called;' and Saul eateth with Samuel on that day.
There was a young man from Beth-lehem in Judah, from the clan of Judah: he was a Levite and was dwelling as a foreigner there.
And the priest said, The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom you put to death in the valley of Elah, is here folded in a cloth at the back of the ephod; take that, if you will, for there is no other sword here. And David said, there is no other sword like that; give it to me.
Jehovah do so and much more to Jonathan: but if it please my father to do thee evil, then I will show it thee, and send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace: and Jehovah be with thee, as he hath been with my father.
And it came to pass, that from the day the ark of Jehovah abode in Cariathiarim days were multiplied, (for it was now the twentieth year,) and all the house of Israel rested following Jehovah.
And Saul sendeth messengers to take David, and she saith, `He sick.'
so that you may approve the things that are exalted; that you may be spiritual and without offense to the day of Christ;
May Jehovah be judge between me and you and may Jehovah give me my rights against you, but my hand will never be lifted up against you.
And David recovered all that Amalekite had carried away; and David rescued his two wives.
And all the citizens of Shechem gathered together, and all the house of Millo, on the way and went and made Abimelech king, by the memorial-oak that is in Shechem.
And Manue said to the angel of Jehovah: I beseech thee to consent to my request, and let us dress a kid for thee.
So it came to pass in the day of battle, that there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan; but with Saul and with Jonathan his son was there found.
Wherefore in all things it behoved him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make atonement for the sins of the people.
And he numbered them in Bezec: and there were of the children of Israel three hundred thousand; and of the men of Judah thirty thousand.
And the man went to the land of the Hittite, and he built a city and named it Luz; this is itself name to this day.
Then the woman said, Who am I to let you see? And he said, Make Samuel come up for me.
They are making their heart glad, and lo, men of the city, men -- sons of worthlessness -- have gone round about the house, off beating on the door, and they speak unto the old man, the master of the house, saying, `Bring out the man who hath come unto thy house, and we know him.'
And he went away from the village of Beth-lehem-judah, looking for somewhere to make his living-place; and on his journey he came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah.
And Saul saith unto Jonathan, `Declare to me, what hast thou done?' and Jonathan declareth to him, and saith, `I certainly tasted with the end of the rod that in my hand a little honey; lo, I die!'
Then Jesse sent for Abinadab and made him come before Samuel. And he said, Jehovah hast not taken this one.
Wherefore let us, receiving a kingdom not to be shaken, have grace, by which let us serve God acceptably with reverence and fear.
And the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel. Because of the Midianites the children of Israel made for themselves the caves that are in the mountains, and the caves, and the strongholds.
And he took a yoke of oxen and cut them in pieces, and sent throughout the territory of Israel by the hand of messengers, saying, Whosoever comes not forth after Saul and after Samuel, so shall it be done to his oxen! And the fear of Jehovah fell on the people, and they came out as one man.
And David saith unto Jonathan, `Who doth declare to me? or what thy father doth answer thee sharply?'
And all that were in distress and oppressed with debt, and under affliction of mind gathered themselves unto him: and he became their prince, and there were with him about four hundred men.
Then David said, "O Yahweh, the God of Israel, your servant hast surely heard that Saul seeks to come to Keilah, to destroy the city for my sake.
So Samuel took a single stone and put it between Mizpah and Shen, and he named it Ebenezer and said, "Up to here Yahweh hast helped us."
And he came to the men of Succoth, and said, Behold Zebah and Zalmunna, with whom ye did upbraid me, saying, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna already in thy hand, that we should give bread to thy men that are weary;
saying, `Blessing indeed I will bless thee, and multiplying I will multiply thee;'
For which cause God hath exalted him, and hath given him a name which is above all names:
And the people felt sorry for Benjamin because Yahweh weakened the tribes of Israel.
The lords of the Philistines gathered them together to offer a great sacrifice to Dagon their god, and to rejoice; for they said, "Our god hast delivered Samson our enemy into our hand."
but to Hannah he used to give a double portion, for he loved Hannah; but Jehovah had shut up her womb.
And the anger of Jehovah burneth against Israel, and He giveth them into the hand of spoilers, and they spoil them, and He selleth them into the hand of their enemies round about, and they have not been able any more to stand before their enemies;
Yet ye have forsaken me, and served other gods: wherefore I will deliver you no more.
And David came to the two hundred men, who were so faint that they could not follow David, whom they had made also to abide at the brook Besor: and they went forth to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him: and when David came near to the people, he saluted them.
And he said unto her, If they bind me fast with new ropes that never were occupied, then shall I be weak, and be as another man.
Then his father and his mother said to him, "Isn't there a woman among your brothers' daughters, or among all my people, that you go to take a wife of the uncircumcised Philistines?" Samson said to his father, "Get her for me, for she pleases me well."
Samuel took a suckling lamb, and offered it for a whole burnt-offering to Yahweh. Samuel cried to Yahweh for Israel; and Yahweh answered him.
for those in Aroer, for those in Siphmoth, for those in Eshtemoa
Grace be with you all.
David said to Achish, "If now I have found favor in your eyes, let them give me a place in one of the cities in the country, that I may dwell there. For why should your servant dwell in the royal city with you?"
Now when Abiathar, the son of Ahimelech, went in flight to David, he came down to Keilah with the ephod in his hand.
And her father said, I verily thought that thou didst utterly hate her; therefore I gave her to thy companion. Is not her younger sister fairer than she be? Let her, I pray thee, be thine instead of her.
But the people, the men of Israel, taking heart again, put their forces in order and took up the same position as on the first day.
Righteous as he turned his shoulder to depart from Samuel, God changed his heart. And all these signs were fulfilled on that day.
Samson said, "Let me die with the Philistines!" He bowed himself with all his might; and the house fell on the lords, and on all the people who were therein. So the dead that he killed at his death were more than those who he killed in his life.
are they not all spirits of service -- for ministration being sent forth because of those about to inherit salvation?
But he whose descent is not counted from them received tithes of Abraham, and blessed him that had the promises.
Yahweh will render to every man his righteousness and his faithfulness; because Yahweh delivered you into my hand today, and I wouldn't stretched out my hand against Yahweh's anointed.
And the trees said to the vine: Come thou and reign over us.
For when for the time ye ought to be teachers, ye have again need that should teach you what the rudiments of the beginning of the oracles of God, and are become such as have need of milk, not of solid food.
And Saul draweth nigh to Samuel in the midst of the gate, and saith, `Declare, I pray thee, to me, where this -- the seer's house?'
The Levite, the husband of the woman who was murdered, answered, "I came into Gibeah that belongs to Benjamin, I and my concubine, to spend the night.
Then David came to Nob to Ahimelech the priest. Ahimelech came to meet David trembling, and said to him, "Why are you alone, and no man with you?"
He had forty sons and thirty sons' sons, who rode on seventy donkey colts. He judged Israel eight years.
if you then have dealt truly and righteously with Jerubbaal and with his house today, then rejoice in Abimelech, and let him also rejoice in you;
And the men of Israel and of Judah got up, and gave a cry, and went after the Philistines as far as Gath and the village doors of Ekron. And the wounded of the Philistines were falling down by the road from Shaaraim all the way to Gath and Ekron.
And David speaketh unto the men who are standing by him, saying, `What is done to the man who smiteth this Philistine, and hath turned aside reproach from Israel? for who this uncircumcised Philistine that he hath defied the ranks of the living God?'
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people rose early, and built there an altar, and offered up burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
David therefore departed thence, and escaped to the cave Adullam; and when his brethren and all his father's house heard it, they went down thither to him.
And they sent and gathered all the lords of the Philistines, and said, Send away the ark of the God of Israel, and let it go again to itself place, that it kill us not, and our people. For there was deadly alarm throughout the city: the hand of God was very heavy there;
And the angel of Jehovah appeared to him, and said to him, even Jehovah, is with thee, thou mighty man of valor.
And Jehovah said to Samuel, How long will you go on sorrowing for Saul, seeing that I have put him from his place as king over Israel? Take oil in your vessel and go; I will send you to Jesse, the Beth-lehemite: for I have bought a king for myself among his sons.
Obey your prelates, and be in subjection to them. For they watch as being to render account of your souls; that they may do this with joy, and not with grief. For this is not expedient for you.
So David fled and escaped, and he came to Samuel at Ramah and told him all that Saul had done to him. Then he and Samuel went and stayed in Naioth.
So then, this gift which your female servant hast brought to my lord, may it be given to the young men who follow my lord.
So they took the vessels of the people, and their horns from their hands, and he sent them away, every man to his tent, keeping only the three hundred; and the tents of Midian were lower down in the valley.
And it was said to the Gazites, Samson is here. So they went round, watching for him all day at the doorway of the village, but at night they kept quiet, saying, When daylight comes we will put him to death.
Notwithstanding, ye have well done, that ye did communicate with my affliction.
Howbeit the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the words of Jephthah which he sent him.
They went up to the city. As they came within the city, behold, Samuel came out toward them, to go up to the high place.
Now give orders to your servants who are here before you to go in search of a man who is an expert player on a corded instrument; and it will be that, when the evil spirit from God is on you, he will make music for you on his instrument, and you will get well.
But the boy did not know anything about this; only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
Then Samuel got up and went up from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin. And Saul mustered the people who were found with him, about six hundred men.
and others underwent proof of mockings and scourgings, yea, and of bonds and imprisonment.
And no man shall hearken to you in this matter. But equal shall be the portion of him that went down to battle and of him that abode at the baggage, and they shall divide alike:
And Samson said unto her, If they bind me with seven green withs that were never dried up, then shall I be weak, and be as another man.
For if he were on earth, he should not be a priest, seeing that there are priests that offer gifts according to the law:
And Jehovah said to Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, seeing I have rejected him from reigning over Israel? fill thy horn with oil, and go, I will send thee to Jesse the Bethlehemite; for I have provided me a king among his sons.
and that all this assembly may know that Yahweh doesn't save with sword and spear; for the battle is Yahweh's, and he will give you into our hand."
Now no chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievous: nevertheless afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them that are exercised thereby.
For we don't have a high priest who can't be touched with the feeling of our weaknesses, but one who hast been in all points tempted like we are, yet without sin.
Now the Spirit of Yahweh departed from Saul and an evil spirit from Yahweh tormented him.
And when he had brought him down, behold, they were spread abroad upon all the earth, eating and drinking, and dancing, because of all the great spoil that they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
(from whence the world was not worthy,) wandering in deserts and mountains, and caves and caverns of the earth.
Therefore the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Chushanrishathaim king of Mesopotamia: and the children of Israel served Chushanrishathaim eight years.
And there came a man of God unto Eli, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Did I plainly appear unto the house of thy father, when they were in Egypt in Pharaoh's house?
All who saw it said, "Nothing like this hast ever been since the Israelites went up from the land of Egypt until this day. Take note of it, consider it, and speak up."
David came to the two hundred men, who were so faint that they could not follow David, whom also they had made to stay at the brook Besor; and they went out to meet David, and to meet the people who were with him. When David came near to the people, he greeted them.
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If ye do return unto Jehovah with all your hearts, then put away the foreign gods and Ashtaroth from among you, and prepare your hearts unto Jehovah, and serve him only: and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
At Bezek they came upon Adoni-bezek, and they fought against him and defeated the Canaanites and the Perizzites.
Then said Elkanah her husband to her, Hannah, why weepest thou? and why eatest thou not? and why is thy heart grieved? am not I better to thee than ten sons?
For Jesus is not entered into the holies made with hands, the patterns of the true: but into heaven itself, that he may appear now in the presence of God for us.
For they had instruments for putting an edge on their ploughs and blades and forks and axes, and for putting iron points on their ox-driving rods.
So it came to pass in the day of battle, that there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people who were with Saul and Jonathan; but Saul and with Jonathan his son had them.
On the day Elkanah sacrificed, he would give portions to his wife Peninnah and to all her sons and daughters.
So the people took victuals in their hand, and their trumpets: and he sent all the rest of Israel every man unto his tent, and retained those three hundred men; and the host of Midian was under him in the valley.
And now, lo, the king whom ye have chosen -- whom ye have asked! and lo, Jehovah hath placed over you a king.
So Jehovah saved Israel that day; and the battle passed over unto Beth-aven.
But my beloved, we trust better things of you, and nearer to salvation; though we speak shalt thou speak.
Then Samuel said to Saul, "You have behaved foolishly! You have not kept the command of Yahweh your God which he commanded you. For then, Yahweh would have established your kingdom over Israel forever.
So Samuel called unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day: and all the people greatly feared Jehovah and Samuel.
When they came down from the high place to the village, he spoke with Saul on the roof.
And he said to Jether his eldest son: Arise, and slay them. But he drew not his sword; for he was afraid, being but yet a boy.
but he with an oath by the one who said to him, "The Lord hast sworn and will not change his mind, 'You are a priest forever'"),
Then said Saul, I have sinned: return, my son David: for I will no more do thee harm, because my soul was precious in thine eyes this day: behold, I have played the fool, and have erred exceedingly.
and she saith, `Philistines upon thee, Samson;' and he awaketh out of his sleep, and saith, `I go out as time by time, and shake myself;' and he hath not known that Jehovah hath turned aside from off him.
And when the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, they said, What meaneth the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews? And they understood that the ark of Jehovah was come into the camp.
And Saul heard that David was uncovered, and the men that were with him. Now Saul was sitting in Gibeah under the tamarisk upon the height, having his spear in his hand, and all his servants were standing by him.
And they found Adonibezek in Bezek: and they fought against him, and they slew the Canaanites and the Perizzites.
After him Elon the Zebulunite judged Israel; and he judged Israel ten years.
And his mother's brethren speak concerning him, in the ears of all the masters of Shechem, all these words, and their heart inclineth after Abimelech, for they said, `He our brother;'
But David pursued, he and four hundred men: for two hundred stayed, who being weary could not go over the torrent Besor.
When Gideon heard the recounting of the dream and itself interpretation, he bowed down and returned to the camp of Israel; and he said, "Get up, for Yahweh hast given the camp of Midian into your hand."
And by reason hereof he aught, as for the people, so also for himself, to offer for sins.
Again, he limiteth a certain day, saying in David, To day, after so long a time; as it is said, To-day if ye will hear his voice, harden not your hearts.
And they declare to Sisera that Barak son of Abinoam hath gone up to mount Tabor,
And as to the angels he says, Who makes his angels spirits and his ministers a flame of fire;
The descendants of Dan sent from the whole number of their clan five capable men from Zorah and Eshtaol to spy out the land and to explore it. And they said to them, "Go, explore the land." And they went to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and they spent the night there.
They did therefore in this ordinance; and taking two cattle, that had suckling calves, they yoked them to the cart, and shut up their calves at home.
And he said, Go. And he sent her away for two months. And she went with her companions, and bewailing her virginity upon the mountains.
And the men of Israel have sworn in Mizpeh, saying, `None of us doth give his daughter to Benjamin for a wife.'
But beyond all gainsaying, the inferior is blessed by the good.
God having spoken in many parts and in many ways formerly to the fathers in the prophets,
Not that I speak in respect of want; for I have learned, in whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content.
And every one that was in distress, and every one that was in debt, and every one that was discontented, gathered themselves unto him; and he became a captain over them: and there were with him about four hundred men.
that same night, Yahweh said to him, "Arise, go down into the camp; for I have delivered it into your hand.
He said to her, "Please give me a little water to drink; for I am thirsty." She opened a bottle of milk, and gave him a drink, and covered him.
And Samuel said to all the people, See ye him whom Jehovah hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people? And all the people shouted, and said, Long live the king.
the same conflict having, such as ye saw in me, and now hear of in me.
reckoning that even out of the dead God is able to raise up, whence also in a figure he did receive .
And Samuel brought to him all the tribes of Israel, and the lot fell on the tribe of Benjamin.
And he brought them before the king of Moab: and they dwelt with him all the while that David was in the stronghold.
and, (so terrible was the sight,) Moses said, `I am fearful exceedingly, and trembling.'
And he said to the boy, Go, and buy the arrow I let loose from my bow. And while the boy was running, he sent an arrow past him.
even Jehovah, forbid that I should stretch forth my hand against Jehovah's anointed! But now take, I pray thee, the javelin that is at his head, and the cruse of water, and let us go.
for the people were numbered, and behold, there were none of the inhabitants of Jabesh-Gilead there.
And it cometh to pass afterwards that the heart of David smiteth him, because that he hath cut off the skirt which on Saul,
And it cometh to pass on the second morrow of the new moon, that David's place is looked after, and Saul saith unto Jonathan his son, `Wherefore hath the son of Jesse not come in, either yesterday or to-day, unto the food?'
To whom, though himself in the form of God, it did not seem that to take for oneself was to be like God;
And Gedeon, and the three hundred men that were with him, went into part of the camp, at the beginning of the midnight watch, and the watchmen being alarmed, they began to sound their trumpets, and to clap the pitchers one against another.
by faith he left Egypt behind, not having been afraid of the wrath of the king, for, as seeing Invisible One -- he endured;
Therefore Jehovah left those nations, without dispossessing them hastily, neither delivered he them into the hand of Joshua.
And the priests' custom with the people was, when any man sacrificed a sacrifice, the priest's servant came, when the flesh was cooked, with a flesh-hook of three prongs in his hand;
Saul said, "They have brought them from the Amalekites; the troops spared the best of the sheep and the cattle in order to sacrifice them to Yahweh your God. But the rest we have utterly destroyed."
Then the bad and good-for-nothing men among those who went with David said, Because they did not go with us, we will give them nothing of the goods which we have bought back, but only to every man his wife and children, so that he may take them and go.
And the Ziphites go up unto Saul to Gibeah, saying, `Is not David hiding himself with us in fortresses, in the forest, in the height of Hachilah, which on the south of the desolate place?
And David cometh in to Nob, unto Ahimelech the priest, and Ahimelech that trembleth at meeting David, and saith to him, `Wherefore thou thyself alone, and no man with thee?'
And now his hair began to grow again.
So changing his behaviour before them, he made it seem as if he was off his head, hammering on the doors of the village, and letting the water from his mouth go down his chin.
But Saul, and they, and all the children of Israel were in the valley of Terebinth fighting against the Philistines.
Then Samuel told the people the regulations of the kingdom, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before Yahweh. Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
And they of Beth-shemesh were reaping their wheat harvest in the valley; and they lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.
She said to him: I will go indeed with thee, but at this time the victory shall not be attributed to thee, because Sisara shall be delivered into the hand of a woman. Debbora therefore arose, and went with Barac to Cedes.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Jephthah, Therefore we turn again to thee now, that thou mayest go with us, and fight against the children of Ammon, and be our head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
And there addeth to be war, and David goeth out and fighteth against the Philistines, and smiteth among them -- a great smiting, and they flee from his face.
Of whom we have many things to say, and hard to be uttered, seeing ye are dull of hearing.
And sometimes Israel had sown, that the Midianites came up, and the Amalekites, and the children of the east, even they came up against them;
His friend answered him and said, "This cannot be anything except the sword of Gideon son of Jehoash, a man of Israel; God hast given Midian and the entire camp into his hand."
And she made him sleep upon her knees, and called a man, and she caused him to shave off the seven locks of his head; and she began to overpower him, and his strength went from him.
By faith Enoch was taken up, so that he did not experience death, and he was not found, because God took him up. For before his removal, he had been approved as having been pleasing to God.
For if Joshua had caused them to rest, he would not have spoken about another day after these things.
`And, now, if in truth and in sincerity ye have acted, when ye make Abimelech king; and if ye have done good with Jerubbaal, and with his house; and if according to the deed of his hands ye have done to him --
Now when their hearts were full of joy, they said, Send for Samson to make sport for us. And they sent for Samson out of the prison-house, and he made sport before them; and they put him between the pillars.
So all the men of Israel were banded together against the village, united like one man.
So the Philistines fought and Israel was defeated and each man fled to his tent, for the slaughter was very great. thirty thousand foot soldiers from Israel fell.
Fleeing as far as Bethsetta, and the border of Abelmahula in Tebbath. But the men of Israel shouting from Nephtali and Aser, and from all Manasseh pursued after Madian.
And Caleb said, He that smiteth Kiriath-sepher, and taketh it, to him will I give Achsah my daughter to wife.
But the God of peace, who brought back from among dead our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of the sheep, in [the power of the] blood of eternal covenant,
Speak, you that ride upon fair asses, and you that sit in justice, and walk in the way.
And lo, a man, an aged one, hath come from his work from the field in the evening, and the man of the hill-country of Ephraim, and he a sojourner in Gibeah, and the men of the place Benjamites.
For patience is necessary for you; that, doing the will of God, you may receive the promise.
Abimelech chased him, and he fled before him, and many fell wounded, even to the entrance of the gate.
and the man goeth to the land of the Hittites, and buildeth a city, and calleth itself name Luz -- it itself name unto this day.
And also all that generation were gathered to their fathers; and there arose another generation after them, who knew not Jehovah, nor the works which he had done for Israel.
And Jonathan covenanteth with the house of David, and Jehovah hath sought from the hand of the enemies of David;
And did I choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to offer upon mine altar, to burn incense, to wear an ephod before me? and did I give unto the house of thy father all the offerings made by fire of the children of Israel?
And he answered them: I and my people were at great strife with the children of Ammon; and I called you to assist me, and you would not do it.
Behold, Saul came following oxen out of the field; and Saul said, "What ails the people that they weep?" They told him the words of the men of Jabesh.
Now all chastisement for the present indeed seemeth not to bring with it joy, but sorrow: but afterwards it will yield; to them that are exercised by it, the most peaceable fruit of righteousness.
And she got up, and going down on her face to the earth, said, See, I am ready to be a servant-girl, washing the feet of the servants of my lord.
Though men may rise up to pursue you, and to seek your soul, yet the soul of my lord will be bound in the bundle of life with Yahweh your God. He will sling out the souls of your enemies, as from the hollow of a sling.
The descendants of Benjamin went out from Gibeah, and they struck down on that day twenty-two thousand men of Israel to the ground.
and not frightened in anything by the opposers, which is to them a demonstration of destruction, but of your salvation, and that from God;
As he says in another place, You are a priest for ever After the order of Melchizedek.
They put away the foreign gods from among them, and served Yahweh; and his soul was grieved for the misery of Israel.
Now faith is the substance of things to be hoped for, the deed of things that appear not.
Then Saul went up from following the Philistines; and the Philistines went to their own place.
As soon as ye come into the city, ye shall straightway find him, before he goes up to the high place to eat; for the people eat not until he hast come, because he blesses the sacrifice; afterwards they eat that are invited. And now go up; for this very day shall ye find him.
And he said to his mother, The eleven hundred silver-pieces that were taken from thee, and about which thou didst curse and speak of in mine ears, behold, the silver is with me; I took it. And his mother said, Blessed be my son of Jehovah!
And on the one hand indeed, by reproaches and tribulations, were made a gazingstock; and on the other, became companions of them that were used in such sort.
even Jehovah, do so and much more to Jonathan. Should it please my father [to do] thee evil, then I will apprise thee of it, and send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace; and Jehovah be with thee, as he hast been with my father.
So Samson went and got three hundred foxes and some sticks of fire-wood; and he put foxes tail to tail with a stick between every two tails;
that we also may be like all the nations; and our king shall judge us, and go out before us, and conduct our wars.
And the Philistines said, Who hast done this? And they answered, Samson, the son-in-law of the Timnite, because he took his wife and gave her to his companion. And the Philistines came up, and burned her and her father with fire.
(In earlier times in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, he said, "Come, and let us go to the seer"; for he who is now called a prophet was before called a seer.)
even though the men were very good to us; we were not mistreated and did not miss anything all the days we went about with them while we were in the field.
When they were coming back after David had returned from striking down the Philistine, the women went out from all the cities of Israel singing and dancing to meet King Saul with tambourines, with joy, and with three-stringed instruments.
And if they say thus, Come up to us, then we will go up; for even Jehovah, hast given them into our hand; and this shall be the sign to us.
Then Samuel got up early in the morning to meet Saul. Samuel was told, "Saul hast gone to Carmel, and look, he is setting up a monument for himself." Then he turned around and crossed over and went down to Gilgal.
And who would listen to you regarding this matter? For as the share of the one who went down into the battle, so the share of the one who remained with the baggage will be. They will share alike."
He that despised Moses' law died without mercy under two or three witnesses:
But now their desire is for a better country, that is to say, for one in heaven; and so it is no shame to God to be named their God; for he hast made ready a village for them.
Then for forty years the land had peace, till the death of Othniel, the son of Kenaz.
and saith to him, `Thus said Jephthah, Israel took not the land of Moab, and the land of the Bene-Ammon,
Then Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went to seek David and his men upon the rocks of the wild goats.
They have been far off from the house of Micah: -- and the men who in the houses which near the house of Micah: have been called together, and overtake the sons of Dan,
But Jehoash said to all who stood against him, "Will you contend for Baal? Will you save him? Whosoever contends for him will be put to death by the morning. If he is a god, let him contend for himself because his altar hast been pulled down."
And he gathered unto him the children of Ammon and Amalek, and went and smote Israel, and possessed the city of palm-trees.
As they cried to the children of Dan, they turned their faces, and said to Micah, "What ails you, that you come with such a company?"
And there was a man of the hill-country of Ephraim, whose name was Micah.
and said, Let me go, I pray thee; for we have a family sacrifice in the city; and my brother himself hast commanded me [to be there]; and now, if I have found favor in thy sight, let me go away, I pray thee, and see my brethren. He hast therefore not come to the king's table.
He also says, "Their sins and their lawless works I will never remember again."
And Abigail came to Nabal; and behold, he held a feast in his house, like the feast of a king; and Nabal's heart was merry within him, for he was drunken to riot, so she told him nothing, less or more, until the morning light.
The adversaries of Jehovah shall fear him: and upon them shall he thunder in the heavens. Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth, and he shall give empire to his king, and shall exalt the horn of his Christ.
And it hath been when she multiplied praying before Jehovah, that Eli is watching its mouth,
And Samuel saith, `As thy sword bereaved women -- so is thy mother bereaved above women;' and Samuel heweth Agag in pieces before Jehovah in Gilgal.
This day, and Jehovah will deliver thee into my hand, and I will slay thee, and take away thy head from thee: and I will give the carcasses of the army of the Philistines this day to the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel.
Him therefore I hope to send immediately, as soon as I shall see how it goes with me:
And Saul said, Come near, all you chiefs of the people, and let us get word from God and see in whom is this sin today.
And Saul sent for the people and had them numbered in Telaim, two hundred thousand footmen and ten thousand men of Judah.
David took the head of the Philistine, and brought it to Jerusalem; but he put his armor in his tent.
complete my joy, so that you are in agreement, having the same love, united in spirit, having one purpose.
For unto Thessalonica also you sent once and again for my use.
Inasmuch as he was not made priest without the taking of an oath
Now when Saul saw David going out to meet the Philistine, he said to Abner, the commander of the army, "Whose son is this young man, Abner?" And Abner said, "As your soul lives, O king, I do not know."
And the man riseth to go, he and his concubine, and his young man, and his father-in-law, father of the young woman, saith to him, `Lo, I pray thee, the day hath fallen toward evening, lodge all night, I pray thee; lo, the declining of the day! lodge here, and let thy heart be glad -- and ye have risen early to-morrow for your journey, and thou hast gone to thy tent.'
And Samson saith, `With a jaw-bone of the ass -- an ass upon asses -- with a jaw-bone of the ass I have smitten a thousand men.'
And another company turned the way to Bethhoron: and another company turned to the way of the border that looketh to the valley of Zeboim toward the wilderness.
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking, that he cast away the jawbone out of his hand, and called that place Ramathlehi.
fearful the falling into the hands of a living God.
And they took all the borders of the Amorites, from the the Arnon unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness unto the Jordan.
And he said to the children of Israel: Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel: I brought up Israel out of Egypt, and delivered you from the hand of the Egyptians, and from the hand of all the kings who afflicted you.
how much more shall the blood of the Christ who through the age-during Spirit did offer himself unblemished to God) purify your conscience from dead works to serve the living God?
then it hath been that which at all cometh out from the doors of my house to meet me in my turning back in peace from the Bene-Ammon -- it hath been to Jehovah, or I have offered up for it -- a burnt-offering.'
That by two immutable things, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we may have the mightiest comfort, who have fled for refuge to hold fast the hope set before us.
And Saul said: Cast lots between me, and Jonathan my son. And Jonathan was taken.
but solid food belongs to full-grown men, who, on account of habit, have their senses exercised for distinguishing both good and evil.
And Abimelech came to the tower and made an attack on it, and got near to the door of the tower for the purpose of firing it.
By faith he was a wanderer in the land of the agreement, as in a strange land, living in tents with Isaac and Jacob, who had a part with him in the same heritage:
And rushing at the goods taken in the fight, the people took oxen and sheep and young oxen, and put them to death there on the earth, and had a meal, taking the flesh with the blood in it.
And it came to pass when they were come, that he looked on Eliab, and said, Surely Jehovah's anointed is before him.
And a man of Benjamin runneth out of the ranks, and cometh into Shiloh, on that day, and his long robes rent, and earth upon his head;
Now Zebah and Zalmunna were in Karkor, and their armies with them, about fifteen thousand men, all that were left of all the army of the children of the east; for there fell one hundred twenty thousand men who drew sword.
Then the Spirit of God rushed upon Saul when he heard these words, and he became angry.
But there was a strong tower within the city, and thither fled all the men and women, and all they of the city, and shut it to them, and gat them up to the top of the tower.
And the princes of Issachar were with Deborah; even Issachar, and also Barak: he was sent on foot into the valley. For the courses of Reuben there were great thoughts of heart.
And when she was upon the point of death, they that stood about her said to her: Fear not, for thou hast borne a son. She answered them not, nor gave heed to them.
Yahweh's anger burned against Israel; and he said, "Because this nation transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and hast not listened to my voice,
You had no pleasure in whole burnt-offerings and sacrifices for sin.
And Achish calleth unto David, and saith unto him, `Jehovah liveth, surely thou upright, and good in mine eyes is thy going out, and thy coming in, with me in the camp, for I have not found in thee evil from the day of thy coming in unto me till this day; and in the eyes of the princes thou art not good;
And the Philistines sent for the priests and those who were wise in secret arts, and said to them, What are we to do with the ark of Jehovah? How are we to send it away to itself place?
And concerning the angels he says, "The one who makes his angels winds, and his servants a flame of fire,"
And it is yet far more evident: if according to the likeness of Melchisedech there ariseth another priest,
Oh! would that this people were under my hand! then would I remove Abimelech. And he said to Abimelech, Increase thine army, and come out.
Yahweh of Armies says, 'I remember what Amalek did to Israel, how he set himself against him on the way, when he came up out of Egypt.
And David pursued, he and four hundred men; for two hundred stayed behind, who were too exhausted to go over the torrent Besor.
So then, you also please listen to the voice of your female servant, and let me set before you a morsel of bread, and you eat so that you will have strength in you when you go on your way."
And now return, and go in peace, that thou displease not the lords of the Philistines.
Then Samuel said to Jesse, Are all your children here? And he said, There is still the youngest, and he is looking after the sheep. And Samuel said to Jesse, Send and make him come here; for we will not take our seats till he is here.
And it came to pass when their hearts were merry that they said, Call for Samson, that he may make us sport. And they called for Samson out of the prison-house, and he played before them; and they set him between the pillars.
and I lay hold on my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and send her into all the country of the inheritance of Israel; for they have done wickedness and folly in Israel;
And it came to pass afterwards that he loved a woman in the valley of Sorek, whose name was Delilah.
I also will not henceforth drive out any from before them of the nations which Joshua left when he died:
And Gideon saith unto them, `Let me ask of you a petition, and give ye to me each the ring of his prey, for they have rings of gold, for they Ishmaelites.'
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Samson, and he tore the lion as he would have torn a kid in pieces, having nothing at all in his hand; and he would not tell this to his father and mother.
And the Philistines fought, and Israel was smitten, and they fled every man into his tent: and there was a very great slaughter; for there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen.
God do so to the enemies of David, and more also, if I leave of all that belongs to him by the morning light so much as one who urinates on a wall."
And the vine saith to them, Have I ceased from my new wine, which is rejoicing gods and men, that I have gone to stagger over the trees?
Women received their dead raised to life again. But others were racked, not accepting those that escape, that they might find a better resurrection.
Now therefore up by night, thou and the people that is with thee, and lie in wait in the field:
Paul and Timothy, the servants of Jesus Christ; to all the saints in Christ Jesus, who are at Philippi, with the bishops and deacons.
and thou hast done kindness, to thy servant, for into a covenant of even Jehovah, thou hast brought thy servant with thee; -- and if there is in me iniquity, put thou me to death; and unto thy father, why is this -- thou dost bring me in?'
And without all contradiction the less is blessed of the good.
Then they went along through the wilderness, and compassed the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east side of the land of Moab, and encamped on the other side of the Arnon, but came not within the border of Moab: for the Arnon was the border of Moab.
Let us keep the witness of our hope strong and unshaking, for he is true who hast given his word;
They chose new gods; then was war in the gates: Was there a shield or spear seen among forty thousand in Israel?
Zebulun didn't drive out the inhabitants of Kitron, nor the inhabitants of Nahalol; but the Canaanites lived among them, and became subject to forced labor.
And it is displeasing to Saul exceedingly, and this thing is evil in his eyes, and he saith, `They have given to David myriads, and to me they have given the thousands, and more to him only the kingdom;'
They answered him: Jehovah who heareth these things, he himself is mediator and witness that we will do as we have promised.
But a messenger came to Saul, saying, "Hurry and come, because the Philistines have made a raid on the land!"
And he saith unto her, `If they certainly bind me with thick hordes, new ones, by which work hath not been done, then I have been weak, and have been as one of the human race.'
but he whose genealogy is not counted from them hast accepted tithes from Abraham, and hast blessed him who hast the promises.
For the women to go year by year sorrowing for the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite, four days in every year.
Now you know, Philippians, that at the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church shared with me in the matter of giving and receiving except you alone,
And the name of his first-born was Joel: and the name of his second, Abijah; they judged in Beer-sheba.
What more am I to say? For there would not be time to give the chambers of Gideon, Barak, Samson, and Jephthah, of David and Samuel and the prophets;
If your father misses me at all, then say, 'David earnestly asked leave of me that he might run to Beth-lehem his city; for it is the yearly sacrifice there for all the family.'
For if we sin wilfully after having the knowledge of the truth, there is now left no sacrifice for sins,
And he said to them: When Jehovah therefore shall have delivered Zebee and Salmana into my hands, I will thresh your flesh with the thorns and briers of the desert.
And when David was gone over to the other side. and stood on the top of the hill afar off, and a good space was between them,
But Samuel said, "Then what is this bleating of the sheep that I hear in my ears and the lowing of the cattle that I am hearing?"
For he was a son, he learned obedience from what he to
Then Gideon took ten men of his servants, and did as Jehovah had said unto him: and so it was, because he feared his father's household, and the men of the city, that he could not do it by day, that he did it by night.
For God hath not subjected unto angels the world to come, whereof we speak.
Therefore God highly exalted him, and gave to him the name which is above every name;
Therefore I do not trespass against thee, but thou wrongest me by rehearsing an unrighteous war against me. Jehovah be judge and decide this day between Israel and the children of Ammon.
For if the blood of goats and bulls and the ashes of a young cow sprinkled on those who are defiled sanctify them for the ritual purity of the flesh,
And the troops had spoken to him according to this word, saying, "So it will be done for the man who defeats him."
And he bringeth him down, and lo, they are spread out over the face of all the earth, eating; and drinking, and feasting, with all the great spoil which they have taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
And they arose and went to Ziph before Saul; but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the plain on the south of the waste.
and where forgiveness of these , there is no more oblation for sin.
But I have thought it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother and fellow labourer, and fellow soldier, but your apostle, and he that hath ministered to my wants.
Because I will be merciful to their unrighteousnesses, and their sins and their lawlessnesses I will never remember any more.
Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, detained before Yahweh; and his name was Doeg the Edomite, the best of the herdsmen who belonged to Saul.
Then his brothers and all the house of his father came down, and took him, and brought him up, and buried him between Zorah and Eshtaol in burial site of Manoah his father. He judged Israel twenty years.
Now therefore know and consider what thou wilt do; for evil is determined against our master, and against all his household: for he is such a son fellow, that a man cannot speak to him.
Then he said to Zebah and Zalmunna, Where are the men whom you put to death at Tabor? And they gave answer, As you are, so were they; every one of them was like a king's son.
They were a wall to us both by night and day, all the while we were with them feeding the sheep.
(for the law made nothing perfect), and a bringing in of a better hope, through which we draw near to God.
Now Saul was threatened by the presence of David because Yahweh was with him, but had departed from Saul.
But Samuel did the work of the Lord's house, while he was a child, dressed in a linen ephod.
And the king said to her: Fear not: what hast thou seen. And the woman said to Saul: I saw gods ascending out of the earth.
And Samuel said unto Jesse, Are here all thy children? And he said, There remaineth yet the youngest, and, behold, he keepeth the sheep. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Send and fetch him: for we will not sit down till he come hither.
`And now, take and make one new cart, and two suckling cattle, on which a yoke hath not gone up, and ye have bound the kine in the cart, and caused their young ones to turn back from after them to the house,
By faith, he kept the Passover, and the sprinkling of the blood, that the destroyer of the first-born should not touch them.
Ask thy servants, and they will tell thee. Now therefore let thy servants find favor in thy eyes: for we are come in a good day, whatsoever thy hand shall find give to thy servants, and to thy son David.
For a tent was prepared. In the first part were the lamp stand, the table, and the show bread; which is called the Holy Place.
And he said to David: Come to me, and I will give thy flesh to the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the earth.
Abimelech came up to the tower and fought against it, and he came near the entrance of the tower to burn it with fire.
on the one hand, when ye were made a spectacle both in reproaches and afflictions; and on the other, when ye became partakers with those who were passing through them.
And behold, as thy life was exalted this day in mine eyes, so let my life be exalted in the eyes of Jehovah, that he may deliver me out of all distress.
Through the window she hath looked out -- Yea, she crieth out -- the mother of Sisera, Through the lattice: Wherefore is his chariot delaying to come? Wherefore tarried have the steps of his chariot?
Then her husband Elkanah said to her, Hannah, why are you weeping? and why are you taking no prey, why is your heart impatient? am I not more to you than ten sons?
It was so; for he rose up early on the next day, and pressed the fleece together, and drained the dew out of the fleece, a bowl full of water.
And Samuel told him every whit, and hid nothing from him. And he said, It is Jehovah; let him do what seemeth him good.
and Ehud maketh for himself a sword, and it hath two mouths (the cubit itself length), and he girdeth it under his long robe on his right thigh;
Then Samson's wife, weeping over him, said, Truly you have no love for me but only hate; you have put a hard question to the children of my people and have not given me the answer. And he said to her, See, I have not given the answer even to my father or my mother; am I to give it to you?
For this is the agreement which I will make with the people of Israel after those days: I will put my laws into their minds, writing them in their hearts: and I will be their God, and they will be my people;
And the number of those lapping with their hand unto their mouth is three hundred men, and all the rest of the people have bowed down on their knees to drink water.
David said to Achish, "Very well, you will know what your servant can do." Achish said to David, "Very well, I will make you my bodyguard for life."
The Philistines lined up for the battle to meet Israel, and the battle was prolonged until Israel was defeated before the Philistines, who killed about four thousand men on the battlefield.
And David took all the flocks and the herds, which they drove before those other cattle, and said, This is David's spoil.
And blessed be thy advice, and blessed be thou, who hast kept me this day from coming to shed blood, and from avenging myself with mine own hand.
and thou hast declared to-day how that thou hast done good with me, how that Jehovah shut me up into thy hand, and thou didst not slay me,
And Achish called David, and said to him, Jehovah liveth, thou art upright, and thy going out and thy coming in with me in the camp is acceptable to me; for I have not found evil in thee since the day of thy coming to me to this day; but thou art not acceptable to the lords.
And they gave to Caleb Hebron, as Moses had said, and he dispossessed from thence the three sons of Anak.
And they had no saviour, because it was far from Sidon, and they had no business with Aram: and it was in the valley which is the property of Beth-rehob. And building up the village again they took it for their living-place.
And the Philistine came on and drew near unto David; and the man that bare the shield went before him.
This thing that you have done is not good. As Yahweh lives, surely you people deserve to die since you have not kept watch over your lord, over Yahweh's anointed one! So then, see where the king's spear is and the jar of water that was near his head!"
But this Yet once, signifies the wandering of what is shaken, as being made, that what is not shaken may remain.
And also Saul hath gone to his house, to Gibeah, and the force go with him whose heart God hath touched;
Then David and his men, about six hundred, arose and departed out of Keilah, and went whithersoever they could go. And it was told Saul that David had escaped from Keilah, and he forbore to go forth.
And Abishai said to David, God hast delivered thine enemy into thy hand this day; and now let me smite him, I pray thee, with the spear, even to the ground once, and I will not do it the second time.
and Saul captured the kingdom over Israel, and he fighteth round about against all his enemies, against Moab, and against the Bene-Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines, and whithersoever he turneth he doth vex .
If one man sin against another, the judge shall judge him: but if a man sin against Jehovah, who shall entreat for him? Notwithstanding they hearkened not unto the voice of their father, because Jehovah would slay them.
Now when the Philistines had news that the children of Israel had come together at Mizpah, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. And the children of Israel, hearing of it, were full of fear.
And thou shalt call Isai to the burnt-offering, and I will show thee what thou art to do, and thou shalt anoint him whom I shall show to thee.
The Philistines stood on the mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on the mountain on the other side: and there was a valley between them.
And Jotham ran away, and fled, and went to Beer, and dwelt there, because of Abimelech his brother.
And Delilah saith unto Samson, `Declare, I pray thee, to me, wherein thy great power , and wherewith thou art bound, to afflict thee.'
Samson said to them, "Let me tell you a riddle now. If you can declare it to me within the seven days of the feast, and find it out, then I will give you thirty linen garments and thirty changes of clothing;
And when the people were come into the wood, behold, the honey dropped; but no man put his hand to his mouth; for the people feared oath.
And it hath been in the day of battle, that there hath not been found sword and spear in the hand of any of the people who with Saul and with Jonathan -- and there is found to Saul and Jonathan his son.
And this man went up out of his city from year to year to worship and to sacrifice to Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, the priests of Jehovah, were there.
And Abigail made haste, and took two hundred loaves, and two skin-bottles of wine, and five sheep ready dressed, and five measures of parched , and a hundred raisin-cakes, and two hundred fig-cakes, and laid them on asses.
And Samuel calleth unto Jehovah, and Jehovah giveth voices and rain, on that day, and all the people greatly fear even Jehovah, and Samuel:
And the house of Joseph spied out Beth-el (the former name of the city was Luz).
all the valiant men arose and went all night, and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan, and came to Jabesh, and burned them there.
And these all, having obtained witness through faith, did not receive the promise,
If only I had authority over this people! I would put Abimelech out of the way, and I would say to Abimelech, Make your army strong, and come out.
Saul also departed to his own house in Gabaa: and there went with him a part of the army, whose hearts God had touched.
Then when she had done so, she took him with her, with a three-year old ox and an ephah of meal and a skin full of wine, and took him to the house of Jehovah at Shiloh: now the child was still very young.
and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that speaks better than Abel's does.
For we are made partakers of Christ: yet so, if we hold the beginning of his substance firm unto the end.
He answered them: Are you the avengers of Baal, that you fight for him? he that is his adversary, let him die before to-morrow light appear: if he be a god, let him avenge himself on him that hath cast down his altar.
But he would not, saying, I have no desire for food. But his servants, together with the woman, made him take food, and he gave way to them. So he bought up from the earth, and took his seat on the bed.
Now in the morning, Jonathan went out into the fields at the time he had said to David, and he had a little boy with him.
For it became him, for whom all things, and through whom all things, in bringing many sons to glory, to make perfect the leader of their salvation through sufferings.
and have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the coming age,
For yet a little and a very little while, and he that is to come, will come, and will not delay.
By faith, Jacob, when he was dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph, and worshiped, Leaning on the top of his staff.
And Saul clothed David with his dress, and put a helmet of bronze upon his head, and clothed him with a corselet.
Yahweh's Spirit came mightily on him, and he tore him as he would have torn a young goat; and he had nothing in his hand, but he didn't tell his father or his mother what he had done.
and I say to you, I Jehovah your God, ye do not fear the gods of the Amorite in whose land ye are dwelling: -- and ye have not hearkened to My voice.'
On condition that you should not make a covenant with the inhabitants of this land, but should throw down their altars: and you would not hear my voice; why have you done this?
And it cometh to pass, on the fourth day, that they rise early in the morning, and he riseth to go, and the father of the young woman saith unto his son-in-law, `Support thy heart with a morsel of bread, and afterward ye go on.'
And Saul began to fear David more: and Saul became David's enemy continually.
And David riseth early, he and his men, to go in the morning, to turn back unto the land of the Philistines, and the Philistines have gone up to Jezreel.
And when Abigail saw David, she hasted and lighted off the ass, and fell before David on her face, and bowed herself to the ground;
Then Eli said, Samuel, my son. And Samuel answering said, Here am I.
and the three hundred blow the trumpets, and even Jehovah, setteth the sword of each against his companion, even through all the camp; and the camp fleeth unto Beth-Shittah, at Zererath, unto the border of Abel-Meholah, by Tabbath.
For the law maketh men priests, who have infirmity; But the word of oath, which was since the law, the Son who is perfected for evermore.
For *he* hast been counted worthy of greater glory than Moses, by how much he that hast built it hast more honor than the house.
And Jehovah called yet again, Samuel. And Samuel arose and went to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou didst call me. And he answered, I called not, my son; lie down again.
Now therefore, I pray thee, pardon my sin, and turn again with me, that I may worship Jehovah.
For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, saith Jehovah: I will put my laws into their mind, and write them in their hearts: and I will be to them a God, and they shall be to me a people:
And Samuel departed to Ramatha: but Saul went up to his house in Gabaa.
And the name of the man was Nabal, and the name of his wife Abigail; and the woman was of good understanding, and of a beautiful face; but the man was churlish and evil in his doings; and he was a Calebite.
And when they were going forward, and had put before them the children and the cattle and all that was valuable,
And now proclaim in the ears of the people, saying, Whosoever is timid and afraid, let him go back and turn from mount Gilead. And there went back of the people twenty-two thousand; and there remained ten thousand.
David said to Ahimelech the priest, "The king hast commanded me to do something and hast said to me, 'Let no one know anything about the business about which I send you, and what I have commanded you. I have sent the young men to a certain place.'
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armorbearer, and all his men that same day together.
And Gideon the son of Joash died in a good old age, and was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in Ophrah of the Abiezrites.
Yahweh said, "Judah shall go up. Behold, I have delivered the land into his hand."
They were left to test Israel by them, to know whether they would listen to Yahweh's commandments, which he commanded their fathers by Moses.
and Jesse causeth seven of his sons to pass by before Samuel, and Samuel saith to Jesse, `Jehovah hath not fixed on these.'
And the children of Israel served Eglon king of Moab eighteen years:
and Saul asketh at Jehovah, and Jehovah hath not answered him, either by dreams, or by Urim, or by prophets.
"For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel. After those days," says Jehovah; "I will put my laws into their mind, I will also write them on their heart. I will be their God, and they will be my people.
As a servant of the holy things and of the true Tent, which was put up by God, not by man.
And the men of Kirjath-Jearim come and bring up the ark of Jehovah, and bring it in unto the house of Abinadab, in the height, and Eleazar his son they have sanctified to keep the ark of Jehovah.
And Gideon said, Therefore when even Jehovah, delivers Zebah and Zalmunna into my hand, I will thresh your flesh with thorns of the wilderness and with briars.
Jesse took a donkey loaded with bread, and a bottle of wine, and a young goat, and sent them by David his son to Saul.
as also in another He saith, `Thou a priest -- to the age, according to the ordinance of Melchisedek;'
And so he doth year by year, from the time of her ascent into the house of Jehovah, so it provoketh her, and she weepeth, and doth not eat.
The voice of Jehovah said Samuel's name; and he said, Here am I.
And the children of the Cinite, the near kinsman of Moses, went up from the city of palms, with the children of Judah into the wilderness of his lot, which is at the south side of Arad, and they dwelt with him.
perfect you in every good work to the doing of his will, doing in you what is pleasing before him through Jesus Christ; to whom glory for the generations of ages. Amen.
Now Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel in the valley of terebinths, fighting against the Philistines.
So they sent ten thousand of the Most valiant men, and commanded them, speaking: Go and put the inhabitants of Jabes Galaad to the sword, with their wives and their children.
And it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall remain in thy house, shall come that he may be prayed for, and shall offer a piece of silver, and a roll of bread, and shall say: Put me, I beseech thee, to somewhat of the priestly office, that I may eat a morsel of bread.
For we also have had the good news proclaimed to us, just as those also did, but the message they heard did not benefit them, because they were not united with those who heard it in faith.
Micah said to him, "Where did you come from?" He said to him, "I am a Levite of Beth-lehem Judah, and I am looking for a place to live."
Then the king sent for Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and for all the men of his father's family who were priests in Nob: and they all came to the king.
And Abimelech coming near the tower, fought stoutly: and approaching to the gate, sought to set a fire to it:
Now Saul's daughter Michal loved David, so they told Saul, and the matter pleased him.
And I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that oppressed you, and drove them out from before you, and gave you their land;
And behold, Barac came pursuing after Sisara: and Jahel went out to meet him, and said to him: Come, and I will show thee, the man whom thou seekest. And when he came into its tent, be saw Sisara lying dead, and the nail fastened in his temples.
And Jonathan calleth for David, and Jonathan declareth to him all these words, and Jonathan bringeth in David unto Saul, and he is before him as heretofore.
And the ark of Jehovah was in the country of the Philistines seven months.
And the number of them that had lapped water, casting it with the hand to their mouth, was three hundred men: and all the rest of the multitude had drunk kneeling.
He lifted up his eyes, and saw the wayfaring man in the street of the city; and the old man said, "Where are you going? Where did you come from?"
Then Saul said to Samuel, "I have listened to the voice of Yahweh, and I have gone on the way that Yahweh sent me! I brought Agag the king of Amalek, and the Amalekite I have utterly destroyed.
The Philistine said to David, "Am I a dog, that you come to me with sticks?" The Philistine cursed David by his gods.
It was told to Abimelech that all the lords of the tower of Shechem had gathered;
And he was very thirsty, and called on Jehovah, and said, Thou hast given by the hand of thy servant this great those that escape, and now shall I die for thirst, and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised?
By faith Moses was kept secretly by his father and mother for three months after his birth, because they saw that he was a fair child; and they had no fear of king's orders.
But there is no doubt that the less gets his blessing from the greater.
For both he that sanctifieth, and they who were sanctified, are all of one. For which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren, speaking:
And the servant answered Saul again, and said, Behold, I have here at hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver: that will I give to the man of God, to tell us our way.
Nay, my sons; for the report that I am hearing is not good causing the people of Jehovah to transgress. --
And they said to him, We are come down to bind thee, that we may give thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Samson said to them, Swear to me that ye will not fall on me yourselves.
They went out into the field, harvested their vineyards, trod the grapes, held festival, and went into the house of their god, and ate and drank, and cursed Abimelech.
For every high priest, being taken from among men, is appointed for men in things pertaining to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins.
And one of [Nabal's] young men told Abigail, Nabal's wife, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to bless our master; and he hast insulted them.
and we desire each one of you the same diligence to show, unto the full assurance of the hope unto the end,
And he did so year by year, as often as she went up to the house of Jehovah, she provoked her thus; and she wept and did not eat.
She put out her hand to the tent-pin, and her right hand to the workman's hammer; and she gave Sisera a blow, crushing his head, wounding and driving through his brow.
There was nothing lacking to them, neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, neither plunder, nor anything that they had taken to them. David brought back all.
may we hold fast the unwavering confession in of the hope, (for faithful He who did promise),
And their sins and iniquities will I remember no more.
But Saul and the people did not put Agag to death, and they kept the best of the sheep and the oxen and the fat beasts and the lambs, and whatever was good, not seeking to put them to the curse; but everything which was bad and of no use they put to the curse.
And he had a head-dress of brass on his head, and he was dressed in a coat of metal, the weight of which was five thousand shekels of brass.
So Michal let David down through the window. He went away, fled, and escaped.
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace: before Jehovah is your way wherein ye go.
who does not need every day like the former high priests to offer up sacrifices for his own sins and then for the sins of the people, because he did this once for all when he offered up himself.
But when they came up from Egypt, Israel went through the waste land to the Red Sea and came to Kadesh;
Nay, my sons; for it is no good tidings that I hear: ye make the Lord's people to transgress.
Now this man was named Nabal, and his wife's name was Abigail: she was a woman of good sense and pleasing looks: but the man was cruel and evil in his ways; he was of the family of Caleb.
Jephthah sent messengers again to the king of the children of Ammon;
and every priest, indeed, hath stood daily serving; and she the same sacrifices many times thereof, that are never able to take away sins.
And David said to Saul, Let no man's heart fail because of him; thy servant will go and fight with this Philistine.
and Jehovah, the God of Israel, giveth Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they smite them, and Israel possesseth all the land of the Amorite, the inhabitant of that land,
And when you saw that Nahash, the king of the children of Ammon, was coming against you, you said to me, No more of this; we will have a king for our ruler: when Jehovah your God was your king.
Let us draw near with a true heart in fulness of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with clean water.
He stood and called to the battle lines of Israel and said to them, "Why have you come out to form ranks for battle? Am I not the Philistine, and you the servants of Saul? Commission for yourselves a man and let him come down to me.
and might deliver all of them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage.
The Philistine walked and came near to David; and the man who bore the shield went before him.
So the anger of Yahweh burned against Israel, and he said, "Because this people transgressed my covenant that I commanded their ancestors, and have not obeyed my voice,
Saul and Jonathan his son and the army that remained with them were staying in Geba of Benjamin, and the Philistines encamped in Micmash.
Only fear Yahweh, and serve him in truth with all your heart; for consider what great things he hast done for you.
Abimelech lived at Arumah; and Zebul drove out Gaal and his brothers, that they should not dwell in Shechem.
Therefore, receiving a Kingdom that can't be shaken, let us have grace, through which we serve God acceptably, with reverence and awe,
And David riseth -- and his men -- about six hundred men, and they go out from Keilah, and go up and down where they go up and down; and to Saul it hath been signified that David hath escaped from Keilah, and he ceaseth to go out.
And it came to pass when the time was come about, Anna conceived and bore a son, and called his name Samuel: because she had asked him of Jehovah.
And his daughter-in-law the wife of Phinees, was big with child, and near her time: and hearing the news that the ark of God was taken, and her father-in-law, and her husband, were dead, she bowed herself and fell in labor; for her pains came upon her on a sudden.
And they showed no kindness to the house of Jerubbaal-Gideon, according to all the good that he had done to Israel.
So he brought down the troops to the water, and Yahweh said to Gideon, "You must separate everyone who laps up the water to drink with his tongue like a dog from those who kneel."
But Jehovah sent destruction on seventy men of the people of Beth-shemesh for looking into the ark of Jehovah; and great was the sorrow of the people for the destruction which Jehovah had sent on them.
And therefore these were fathered from one man, and he being as good as dead, as the stars of heaven in number and like the innumerable sand by the uttermost part of the sea.
And there came against Gibeah ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and the battle was sore; But they knew not that evil was near them.
They possessed all the border of the Amorites, from the the Arnon even to the Jabbok, and from the wilderness even to the the Jordan.
But now your kingdom will not continue. Yahweh hast sought for himself a man after his own heart, and Yahweh hast appointed him to be prince over his people, because you have not kept that which Yahweh commanded you."
So may Yahweh punish Jonathan and more if my father decides to do you harm and if I fail to disclose it to you and send word to you that you can go safely. And may Yahweh be with you, as he hast been with my father.
and Moses indeed stedfast in all his house, as an attendant, for a testimony of those things that were to be spoken,
But the men of Israel were distressed that day. Now Saul had adjured the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth food until evening, and I am avenged on mine enemies. So none of the people tasted food.
For every chief priest -- out of men taken -- in behalf of men is set in things to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins,
So he brought them before the king of Moab, and they stayed with him all the days David was in the stronghold.
put not thy handmaid before a daughter of worthlessness, for from the abundance of my meditation, and of my provocation, I have spoken hitherto.'
And David swore to Saul. And Saul went home; and David and his men went up to the stronghold.
And from thence he went against the inhabitants of Debir: now the name of Debir beforetime was Kirjathsepher:
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice: and the woman spake to Saul, saying, Why hast thou deceived me? for thou art Saul.
and all Israel and Judah love David when he is going out and coming in before them.
Therefore I swore to the house of Eli that the iniquity of the house of Eli would not be atoned for by sacrifice or by offering forever."
And they truly were many priests, because they were not suffered to continue by reason of death:
Then shalt thou go on forward from thence, and thou shalt come to the plain of Tabor, and there shall meet thee three men ascent to God to Beth-el, one carrying three kids, and another carrying three loaves of bread, and another carrying a bottle of wine:
All the people got up as one body, saying, "Not one of us will go to his tent, or will any of us return to his house.
Then the Philistines said, "Who hast done this?" They said, "Samson, the son-in-law of the Timnite, because he hast taken his wife, and given her to his companion." The Philistines came up, and burnt her and her father with fire.
And when the men of Ashdod, saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel shall not abide with us; for his hand is severe upon us, and upon Dagon our god.
And he said unto his lad, Run, find out now the arrows which I shoot. And as the lad ran, he shot an arrow beyond him.
Then Samuel said, "Gather all Israel to Mizpah, and I will pray to Yahweh for you."
And he said, They were my brethren, even the sons of my mother: as Jehovah liveth, if ye had saved them alive, I would not slay you.
So David said to Abner, "Are you not a man? And who is like you in Israel? Why did you not keep watch over your lord the king? For one of the people came to destroy your lord the king.
For most certainly, he doesn't give help to angels, but he gives help to the offspring of Abraham.
And Samuel taketh a fat lamb, and causeth it to go up -- a burnt-offering whole to Jehovah; and Samuel crieth unto Jehovah for Israel, and even Jehovah, answereth him;
Wherefore it came to pass, when the time was come about after Hannah had conceived, that she bare a son, and called his name Samuel, saying, Because I have asked him of Jehovah.
And so terrible was that which was seen, Moses said: I am frighted, and shudder.
For we are the circumcision which worship God in the spirit, and rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh.
and make straight paths for your feet, so that what is lame will not be dislocated, but rather be healed.
By faith, Moses, when he was born, was hidden for three months by his parents, because they saw that he was a beautiful child, and they were not afraid of the king's commandment.
Woe unto us! who shall deliver us out of the hand of these mighty gods? these are the gods that smote the Egyptians with every plague in the wilderness.
Nevertheless Jehovah raised up judges, who delivered them out of the hand of those that despoil them.
And the elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, "That being so, we have now returned to you, that you may go with us to fight against the children of Ammon and become for us as head of all the inhabitants of Gilead."
And Jerubbaal the son of Joash went and dwelt in his house.
of whom the world was not worthy, wandering about on deserts and mountains and in holes and in caves in the ground.
since he had been obliged often to suffer from the foundation of the world. But now once in the consummation of the ages he hast been manifested for putting away of sin by his sacrifice.
Now the righteous shall live by faith: but if any man draw back, my soul shall have no pleasure in him.
And Adonibezek said, Threescore and ten kings, having their thumb and their great toe cut off, gathered their food under my table: as I have done, so God hath requited me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and there he died.
And the children of Dan went their way; and Micah saw that they were too mighty for him, and he turned and went back to his house.
He set a fire to the torches and let the foxes go into the standing grain of the Philistines, and he burned both the shocks of sheaves and the standing grain, up to the vineyards of olive groves.
for we do enter into the rest -- we who did believe, as He said, `So I sware in My anger, If they shall enter into My rest -- ;' and yet the works were done from the foundation of the world,
And Eli would bless Elkanah and his wife, and he said, "May Yahweh give you an offspring from this woman in place of the petitioned one that she requested from Yahweh." Then they went to their home.
By faith he kept the Passover, and put the sign of the blood on the houses, so that the angel of destruction might not put their oldest sons to death.
When the children of Ammon made war against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to get Jephthah out of the land of Tob.
but *ye* have this day rejected your God, who himself saved you out of all your adversities and your troubles, and have said unto him, [Nay,] but a king shalt thou set over us. Now therefore present yourselves before Jehovah by your tribes, and by your thousands.
for ye have conspired all of you against me, and there is none uncovering mine ear about my son's covenanting with the son of Jesse, and there is none of you hurting for me, and uncovering mine ear, that my son hath raised up my servant against me, to lie in wait as this day.'
And they took their daughters to wives, and they gave their own daughters to their sons, and they served their gods.
They answered, "We will willingly give them." They spread a garment, and every man threw the rings of his plunder into it.
you did not delight in whole burnt-offerings and offerings for sins.
and I -- I go out, and have stood by the side of my father in the field where thou , and I speak of thee unto my father, and have seen what [is coming], and have declared to thee.'
Each one not considering the things that are his own, but those that are other men's.
I can do all things through Christ that strengtheneth me.
For those of us who have belief come into his rest; even as he hast said, As I said in my oath when I was angry, They may not come into my rest: though the works were done from the time of the making of the world.
And when the people saw him, they gave praise to their god: for they said, Our god hast given into our hands the one who was fighting against us, who made our country waste, and who put great numbers of us to death.
As saith proverb of the aged, Wickedness proceedeth from the wicked; But my hand shall not be upon thee.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and carried it from the Stone of help into Azotus.
And as it is appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment:
The Philistine said, "I defy the armies of Israel today! Give me a man, that we may fight together!"
On that day I will fulfill against Eli all that I have spoken against his household, from beginning to end.
And they rise early in the morning, and bow themselves before Jehovah, and turn back, and come in unto their house in Ramah, and Elkanah knoweth Hannah his wife, and even Jehovah, remembereth her;
for I know that this shall turn out for me to salvation, through your supplication and supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ;
And the children of Israel were servants to Eglon, king of Moab, for eighteen years.
and now, call, I pray thee, in the ears of the people, saying, Whoso afraid and trembling, let him turn back and go early from mount Gilead;' and there turn back of the people twenty and two thousand, and ten thousand have been left.
And others were tested by being laughed at or by blows, and even with chains and prisons:
And he smote it into the pan, or kettle, or caldron, or pot; all that fleshhook brought up the priest took for himself. So they did in Shiloh unto all Israel that came thither.
And she is bitter in soul, and prayeth unto Jehovah, and weepeth greatly,
And he said again to God: let not thy wrath be kindled against me if I try once more, seeking a sign in the fleece. I pray that the fleece only may be dry, and all the ground wet with dew.
When the men of the city got up early in the morning, look, the altar of Baal and the Asherah that was besides it were cut down, and the second bull was offered on the altar that had been built.
His daughter-in-law, Phinehas' wife, was with child, near to be delivered. When she heard the news that God's ark was taken, and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, she bowed herself and gave birth; for her pains came on her.
Then quickly crying out to his body-servant, he said to him, Take out your sword and put an end to me straight away, so that men may not say of me, His death was the work of a woman. So the young man put his sword through him, causing his death.
and the anger of Jehovah burneth against Israel, and He selleth them into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the Bene-Ammon,
By faith the walls of Jericho fell down after they had been were marching around for seven days.
And when she had gotten upon an ass, and was coming down to the foot of the mountain, David and his men came down over against her, and she met them.
How much more could have been done if the troops had eaten freely to-day from the plunder of their enemies that they had found! For now the loss among the Philistines is not great."
And the Spirit of Yahweh came upon Jephthah, and he passed through Gilead and Manasseh. He passed through Mizpah of Gilead, and from Mizpah of Gilead he passed through to the children of Ammon.
Then they said, Behold, there is a feast of Jehovah in Shiloh yearly in a place which is on the north side of Beth-el, on the east side of the highway that goeth up from Beth-el to Shechem, and on the south of Lebonah.
and the people pounced on the plunder, and took sheep, cattle, and calves, and killed them on the ground; and the people ate them with the blood.
But if you do not listen to the voice of Yahweh, and you rebel against what Yahweh says, then the hand of Yahweh will be against you as it was against your ancestors.
And when the men of that village were risen in the morning, they saw the altar of Baal destroyed, and the Asherah cut down, and the second bullock laid upon the altar, which then was built.
for many walk of whom many times I told you -- and now also weeping tell -- the enemies of the cross of the Christ!
being without father or mother, or family, having no birth or end to his life, being made like the Son of God, is a priest for ever.
For the one about whom these things are spoken belongs to another tribe from which no one hast officiated at the altar.
And he saith unto David, `More righteous thou than I; for thou hast done me good, and I have done thee evil;
And he saith to them: `Out of the eater came forth food, And out of the strong came forth sweetness;' and they were not able to declare the riddle three days.
For we know the one who said, "Vengeance is mine, I will repay," and again, "The Lord will judge his people."
For we have not a high priest not able to sympathise with our infirmities, but tempted in all things in like manner, sin apart.
Now after a time the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
And Jehovah said to Samuel: Hearken to the voice of the people in all that they say to thee. For they have not rejected thee, but me, that I should not reign over them.
And Saul saith unto his servants, `Provide, I pray you, for me a man playing well -- then ye have brought in unto me.'
So Jonathan rose from the table in great anger, and did not eat bread on the second day after the new moon. For he was grieved for David, because his father had put him to confusion.
And a fighter came out from the tents of the Philistines, named Goliath of Gath; he was more than six cubits tall.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared no more to Manoah and to his wife. Then Manoah knew that it was the angel of Jehovah.
Then Saul said to Ahiah, "Bring near the ark of God" (for the ark of God was at that time with the Israelites).
and when again He may bring in the first-born to the world, He saith, `And let them bow before him -- all messengers of God;'
And the king said, Thou shalt certainly die, Ahimelech, thou, and all thy father's house.
If then [there be] any comfort in Christ, if any consolation of love, if any fellowship of Spirit, if any bowels and compassions,
And the trees said to the fig-tree: Come thou and reign over us.
Please go make yet more sure, and know and see his place where his dwelt is, and who hast seen him there; for I have been told that he parts very crafty.
But a messenger came to Saul, saying, "Hurry and come; for the Philistines have made a raid on the land!"
because for the work of Christ he came near to death, risking his life to supply that which was lacking in your service toward me.
Yahweh said to Samuel, "Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, at which both the ears of everyone who hears it will tingle.
And Eli said to her, How long are you going to be the worse for drink? Put away the effects of your wine from you.
And Jehovah appeared again at Shiloh; for even Jehovah, revealed himself to Samuel at Shiloh by the word of Jehovah.
From henceforth expecting till his enemies be made his footstool.
And Saul said to the Cinite: Go, depart and get ye down from Amalec: lest I destroy thee with him. For thou hast shewn kindness to all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt. And the Cinite departed from the midst of Amalec.
and Samuel is causing the burnt-offering to go up -- and the Philistines have drawn nigh to battle against Israel -- and Jehovah doth thunder with a great noise, on that day, upon the Philistines, and troubleth them, and they are smitten before Israel.
So God split the hollow place that is at Lehi, and water came out from it; and he drank, and his spirit returned, and he was revived. Thus he called itself name The Spring of Ha-Qore, which is at Lehi unto this day.
And with whom was he offended forty years? Was it not with them that sinned, whose carcasses were overthrown in the desert?
Therefore David consulted Jehovah, speaking: Shall I go and smite these Philistines? And Jehovah said to David: Go, and thou shalt smite the Philistines, and shalt save Ceila.
And the three oldest sons of Jesse had gone with Saul to the fight: the names of the three who went to the fight were Eliab, the oldest, and Abinadab the second, and Shammah the third.
And they answered them and said, He is; behold, he is before thee; make haste now, for he came to-day to the city; for the people have a sacrifice to-day in the high place.
And the Philistines assembled their hosts to battle, and were gathered together at Sochoh, which belongs to Judah, and encamped between Sochoh and Azekah, in Ephesdammim.
and make straight paths for your feet, that that which is lame be not turned aside; but rather that it may be healed.
And Achish answered and said to David, I know that thou art good in my sight, as an angel of God: notwithstanding the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.
Not yet unto blood did ye withstand -- with the sin striving;
And Jehovah appeared again in Shiloh: for Jehovah revealed himself to Samuel in Shiloh by the word of Jehovah.
There was a trembling in the camp, in the field, and among all the people; the garrison, and the raiders, also trembled, and the earth quaked, so there was an exceedingly great trembling.
Among all this people there were seven hundred chosen men lefthanded; every one could sling stones at a hair breadth, and not miss.
He took a yoke of oxen, and cut them in pieces, and sent them throughout all the borders of Israel by the hand of messengers, saying, "Whoever doesn't come out after Saul and after Samuel, so shall it be done to his oxen." The dread of Yahweh fell on the people, and they came out as one man.
And Jehovah said: Judah shall go up: behold, I have delivered the land into his hands.
You have loved righteousness, and hated iniquity; therefore God, your God, hast anointed you with the oil of gladness above your fellows."
And there a man of the servants of Saul on that day detained before Jehovah, and his name Doeg the Edomite, chief of the shepherds whom Saul hath.
He took Agag the king of the Amalekite alive, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword.
And Elkanah her husband said to her, Hannah, why weepest thou? and why eatest thou not? and why is thy heart grieved? Am not I better to thee than ten sons?
and said, Jehovah, the God of Israel, why is it come to pass in Israel, that there should be this day one tribe lacking in Israel?
Then Gideon sent through all the hill-country of Ephraim saying, Come down against Midian, and keep the ways across the Jordan before they come. So all the men of Ephraim, massing themselves together, kept the ways across the Jordan.
And the man of thine, whom I shall not cut off from mine altar, shall be to consume thine eyes, and to grieve thy heart: and all the increase of thy house shall die in the flower of their age.
And the cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron even unto Gath; and the borders thereof did Israel deliver out of the hands of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
But I counted it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother, fellow worker, fellow soldier, and your apostle and servant of my need;
But if you still do evil, destruction will overtake you and your king.
So that, my brethren, beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, thus stand fast in Lord, beloved.
and he hath a son, and his name Saul, a choice youth and goodly, and there is not a man among the sons of Israel goodlier than he -- from his shoulder and upward, higher than any of the people.
So the rulers of the Philistines brought up to her seven fresh bowstrings that were not dried up, and she tied him up with them.
As soon as the boy was gone, David arose out of the South, and fell on his face to the ground, and bowed himself three times. They kissed one another, and wept one with another, and David wept the the most.
When David and his men had come to Ziklag on the third day, the Amalekite had made a raid on the South, and on Ziklag, and had struck Ziklag, and burned it with fire,
and Saul turneth him aside from him, and setteth up him to himself head of a thousand, and he goeth out a cometh in, before the people.
They gave him a piece of a cake of figs, and two clusters of raisins. When he had eaten, his spirit came again to him; for he had eaten no bread, and drank no water for three days and three nights.
Her hand to the pin she sendeth forth, And her right hand to the labourers' hammer, And she hammered Sisera -- she smote his head, Yea, she smote, and it passed through his temple.
Then the king said to the runners who were waiting near him, Put the priests of Jehovah to death; because they are on David's side, and having knowledge of his flight, did not give me word of it. But the king's servants would not put out their hands to make an attack on the Lord's priests.
Then Ehud went out into the covered way, the shutting the doors of the summer-house on him and locking them.
And now as I know that thou shalt surely be king, and have the kingdom of Israel in thy hand;
And they said to them, "Come, let us go up against them; for we have seen the land, and it is very good. Will you do nothing? Do not hesitate to go, to enter, to possess the land.
And he said unto them, Out of the eater came forth food, and out of the strong came forth sweetness. And they could not in three days expound the riddle.
And he said to them, Look on me, and do in like manner; behold, when I come to the extremity of the camp, it shall be that, as I do, so shall ye do.
Then they said, Do get directions from God for us, to see if the journey on which we are going will have a good outcome.
And when David heard that Nabal had died, he said, "Blessed be Yahweh who hast vindicated the case of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and he hast kept back his servant from evil; but Yahweh hast returned the evil of Nabal on his own head." Then David sent and spoke with Abigail to take her for his wife.
From Ephraim is their root into Amalek, after you, Benjamin, with your family; from Makir the commanders went down, and from Zebulun those carrying the scepter of the military commander.
And the men that died not were smitten with the emerods: and the cry of the city went up to heaven.
And Jehovah called Samuel again the third time. And he arose up and went to Heli.
Now Samuel died, and all Israel assembled and mourned for him. They buried him at his house at Ramah. Then David bought up and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
and this will we do if God permit.
Keep in mind those who are in chains if you were chained with them, and those who are in trouble, as being yourselves in the body.
And the men of Judah said, Why have you come up against us? And they said, We have come up to take Samson, and to do to him as he hast done to us.
and these all, having been testified to through the faith, did not receive the promise,
Yet so that they first went up and wept before Jehovah until night: and consulted him, and said: Shall I go out any more to fight against the children of Benjamin my brethren, or not? And he answered them: Go up against them, and join battle.
And Jehovah called Samuel again the third time. And he arose and went to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou didst call me. And Eli perceived that Jehovah had called the child.
For indeed he was sick, nearly to death, but God had mercy on him; and not on him only, but on me also, that I might not have sorrow on sorrow.
Then Abimelech went to Thebez, and encamped against Thebez, and took it.
For ground that drinks the rain that comes often upon it, and brings forth vegetation usable to those people for whose sake it is also cultivated, shares a blessing from God.
And from there he went up against the people of Debir. (Now the name of Debir in earlier times was Kiriath-sepher.)
who serve representation and shadow of heavenly things, according as Moses was oracularly told about to make the tabernacle: for See, saith He that thou make all things according to the pattern which hast been shewn to thee in the mountain.)
Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, and the sign that the things not seen are true.
And Samuel said unto the people, It is Jehovah that advanced Moses and Aaron, and that brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
But if ye will not obey the voice of Jehovah, but rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then shall the hand of Jehovah be against you, as it was against your fathers.
By faith Abraham did as God said when he was Ordered to go out into a place which was to be given to him as a heritage, and went out without knowledge of where he was going.
And the Philistine came on, and drew nigh against David, and his armorbearer before him.
And saying these things, they cast away out of their borders all the idols of foreign gods and served Jehovah their God: and he was touched with their miseries.
Do all things without protests and arguments;
Then he disguised himself; and put on other garments, and he went, and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night, and he said to her: Divine to me by thy divining spirit, and bring me up him whom I shall tell thee.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and spoil them until the morning light, and let us not leave a man of them. And they said, Do whatsoever seemeth good unto thee. Then said the priest, Let us draw near hither unto God.
And Samson said to her, If seven new bow-cords who have never been made dry are knotted round me, I will become feeble and will be like any other man.
And he said unto them, Come after me; for Jehovah hast given the Moabites, your haters, into your hands. So they went down after him and took the crossing-places of the Jordan against Moab, and let no one go across.
But one of the young men said to Nabal's wife Abigail, David sent men from the waste land to say kind words to our master, and he gave them a rough answer.
By faith the walls of Jericho fell down, after they were compassed about seven days.
Go and cry to the gods that ye have chosen: let them save you in the time of your trouble.
and Jesse made his seven sons come before Samuel. And Samuel said to Jesse, Jehovah hast not taken any of these.
So David bought up and fled on that day from the presence of Saul, and he came to Achish the king of Gath.
And death came to Joshua, the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, he being a hundred and ten years old.
Saul answered and said, "Am I not a Benjaminite, from the smallest of the tribes of Israel, and my family the humblest of all the families of the tribes of Benjamin? Why do you speak to me in this way?"
He will take a tenth of your seed and of the fruit of your vines and give it to his servants.
And the sons of Benjamin come out to meet the people; they have been drawn away out of the city, and begin to smite of the people -- wounded as time by time, in the highways (of which one is ascent to Beth-El, and the other to Gibeah in the field), about thirty men of Israel.
who being the brightness of the glory, and the impress of His subsistence, bearing up also the all things by the saying of his might -- through himself having made a cleansing of our sins, sat down at the right hand of the greatness in the highest,
Then Eli said to her, "How long will you behave like someone who is drunk? Put away your wine!"
and cometh up and declareth to his father, and to his mother, and saith, `A woman I have seen in Timnah, of the daughters of the Philistines; and now, take her for me for a wife.'
And when Gaal saw the people, he said to Zebul, Behold, there come people down from the top of the mountains. And Zebul said unto him, Thou seest the shadow of the mountains as if they were men.
Then Hannah prayed and said, "My heart exults in Yahweh, my strength is exalted in Yahweh; I grin over my enemies, for I rejoice over your salvation.
And Samuel turneth back after Saul, and Saul is bowed himself to Jehovah;
Then Saul sent word to Jesse, saying, "Please let David stand before me, because he hast found favor in my sight."
He called quickly to the young man carrying his weapons, and he said to him, "Draw your sword and kill me, so that they will not say of me, 'A woman killed him.'" So the young man stabbed him, and he died.
And Jonathan said to David, What thy soul may say, I will do it for thee.
And Saul said: Let us fall upon the Philistines by night, and destroy them till the morning light, and let us not leave a man of them. And the people said: Do all that seemeth good in thy eyes. And the priest said: Let us draw near hither unto God.
to whom Abraham gave also the tenth portion of all; first being interpreted King of righteousness, and then also King of Salem, which is King of peace;
For unto you it is given for Christ, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for him.
And the men of Beth-shemesh said, Who is able to stand before this holy Lord Jehovah, and to whom shall he go up from us?
And they called the name of the city Dan, after the name of Dan their father, who was born to Israel: howbeit Laish was the name of the city at the first.
Manasseh did not drive out Beth-Sean and itself towns, or Taanach and itself towns, or the inhabitants of Dor and itself towns, or the inhabitants of Ibleam and itself towns, or the inhabitants of Megiddo and itself towns; the Canaanites were determined to live in this land.
And the prophet Gad said to David, Do not go on living in this place but go into the land of Judah. Then David went away and came to the woodland of Hereth.
As she rode on her donkey, and came down by the covert of the mountain, that behold, David and his men came down toward her, and she met them.
In that day I will perform against Eli all that I have spoken concerning his house, from the beginning even to the end.
Then Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house in Gibeah, in the land of Saul.
And they turned and fled towards the wilderness to the ascent of Rimmon, and they gleaned of them in the highways five thousand men; and pursued hard after them to Gidom, and slew two thousand men of them.
And they took all the flocks and herds, and driving them in before him, said, These are David's.
And the gold mice, one for every village of the Philistines, the property of the five lords, walled towns as well as country places: and the great stone where they put the ark of Jehovah is still in the field of Joshua the Beth-shemite unto this day.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served Baalim:
And David in answer said to the priest, Certainly women have been kept from us; and as hast been done before when I have gone out the arms of the young men were made holy, even though it was a common journey; how much more to-day will their arms be made holy.
Therefore also God exalted him and graciously granted him the name above every name,
And David rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep with a keeper, and took his charge and went, as Jesse had commanded him. And he came to the wagon-defence; and the host which was going forth to the battle-array shouted for the fight.
don't harden your hearts in the rebellion, like as in the day of the proof in the wilderness,
And build an altar unto Jehovah thy God upon the top of this rock, in the Ordered place, and take the second bullock, and offer a burnt-offering with the wood of the Asherah which thou shalt cut down.
And David hid himself in the field; and it was the new moon, and the king sat at table to eat.
So they went on their way again, putting the little ones and the oxen and the goods in before them.
and the men of Judah say, `Why have ye come up against us?' and they say, `To bind Samson we have come up, to do to him as he hath done to us.'
I am in a hard position between the two, having a desire to go away and be with Christ, which is very much better:
And the sin of the young men is very great the presence of Jehovah, for the men have despised the oblation of Jehovah.
saying, "This is the blood of the covenant that God hast commanded for you."
They sent therefore and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines: and they said: Send away the ark of the God of Israel, and let it return into itself place, and not kill us and our people.
And the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, and said, What is the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews? And they understood that the ark of Jehovah had come into the camp.
And the Spirit of God came upon Saul when he heard those tidings, and his anger was kindled greatly.
His sons didn't walk in his ways, but turned aside after dishonest gain, took bribe, and perverted justice.
The women sang to one another as they played, and said, "Saul hast slain his thousands, David his ten thousands."
Take not thy handmaid for a daughter of Belial: for out of the abundance of my grief and provocation have I spoken hitherto.
And the Hebrews have been for the Philistines as heretofore, who had gone up with them into the camp, have turned round, even they, to be with Israel who with Saul and Jonathan,
Then Samuel told the people the custom of the kingship, and he wrote the rules down on a scroll and laid it before Yahweh. Then Samuel sent all the people away, each to his own house.
Now this is the main mark in what hast been said: we have a high priest such as this, who sat down at the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in heaven,
Then Achis called David, and said to him: As Jehovah liveth, thou art upright and good in my sight: and so is thy going out, and thy coming in with me in the army; and I have not found my evil in thee, since the day that thou camest to me unto this day; but thou pleasest not the lords.
`And even Jehovah, sendeth Jerubbaal, and Bedan, and Jephthah, and Samuel, And delivereth you out of the hand of your enemies round about, and ye dwell confidently.
So the Philistines went to the fight, and Israel was overcome, and every man went in flight to his tent: and great was the destruction, for thirty thousand footmen of Israel were put to the sword.
who in the days of his flesh offered up both prayers and supplications, with loud crying and tears, to the one who was able to save him from death, and he was heard as a result of his reverence.
In the days of Samgar the son of Anath, in the days of Jahel the paths rested: and they that went by them, walked through by-ways.
And they took the things which Micah had made, and the priest which he had, and came unto Laish, unto a people that were at quiet and secure: and they smote them with the edge of the sword, and burnt the city with fire.
standing every man in his place round about the enemies' camp. So all the camp was troubled, and crying out and wailing they fled away.
only of things and drinks and divers washings, ordinances of flesh, imposed until time of setting things right.
And Michal took an image, and laid it in the bed, and put a pillow of goats' hair for his bolster, and covered it with a cloth.
having been made perfect, he became to all of those who obey him a God of eternal salvation,
Now Yahweh's Spirit departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from Yahweh troubled him.
Saul took him on that very day and did not know him to return to his father's house.
make my joy full, by being like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind,
nor yet that he should offer himself often, as the high priest entereth into the holies, every year with the blood of others:
And they sent word to David, saying, The Philistines are fighting against Keilah and taking the grain from the grain-floors.
Your flocks also he will tithe, and you shall be his servants.
And after him Ibzan of Beth-lehem judged Israel.
Jephthah vowed a vow to Yahweh, and said, "If you will indeed deliver the children of Ammon into my hand,
And put the ark of Jehovah on the cart, and the gold images which you are sending as a sin-offering in a chest by itself side; and send it away so that it may go.
For God spoke long ago in many parts and in many ways to the fathers by the prophets,
And he came to his father's house in Ephra, and slew his brethren the sons of Jerobaal, seventy men, upon one stone; and there remained only Jotham the youngest son of Jerobaal, who was hidden.
David said to Abiathar, "I knew on that day, when Doeg the Edomite was there, that he would surely tell Saul. I am responsible for the death of all the persons of your father's house.
Abimelech ruled over Israel three years.
And he said to Abiathar the priest the son of Achimelech: Bring me hither the ephod. And Abiathar brought the ephod to David.
And when Eli heard the noise of the crying, he said, What meaneth the noise of this tumult? And the man came in hastily, and told Eli.
And she sent and called Barak the son of Abinoam out of Kedesh-Naphtali, and said to him, Hath not even Jehovah, the God of Israel commanded? Go and draw towards mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali and of the children of Zebulun,
And it was so from that day forward, that he made it a statute and an ordinance for Israel unto this day.
And thou shalt not only while yet I live show me the kindness of Jehovah, that I die not,
So Saul removed him from his presence, and made him commander of a thousand, so he were marching in and out at before the army.
For God is my witness, how I long after you all in the heart of Jesus Christ.
These indeed out of love, knowing that I am set for the defence of the glad tidings,
Saul said, "Hear now, you son of Ahitub." He answered, "Here I am, my lord."
Grace be with all of you.
And he said unto his servant, Come, and let us draw near to one of these places to lodge all night, in Gibeah, or in Ramah.
And he had thirty sons, and thirty daughters, whom he sent abroad, and took in thirty daughters from abroad for his sons. And he judged Israel seven years.
Saying, Surely blessing I will bless thee, and multiplying I will multiply thee.
Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, within the tabernacle of Jehovah: and his name was Doeg, an Edomite, the ascent of Saul's herdsmen.
And yet they would not hearken unto their judges, but they played the harlot after other gods, and bowed themselves unto them: they turned quickly out of the way which their fathers walked in, your obedience to the commandments of Jehovah; but they did not so.
Moreover he will take the tenth of your grain, and of the revenues of your vineyards, to give his eunuchs and servants.
Then Gideon was certain that he was the angel of Jehovah; and Gideon said, I am in fear, O Lord Jehovah! for I have seen the angel of Jehovah face to face.
And Saul said nothing that day, for he thought it might have happened to him, that he was not clean, nor purified.
And the Philistine saith, `I have reproached the ranks of Israel this day; give to me a man, and we fight together.'
When he came to Lehi, the Philistines shouted against him. And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and the cords that were on his arms became as threads of flax that are burned with fire, and his bands loosed from off his hands.
And he restored the eleven hundred silver-pieces to his mother; and his mother said, I had dedicated the silver to even Jehovah, from my hand for my son, to make a graven image and a molten image; and now I will restore it to thee.
And I make request to you, true helper in my work, to see to the needs of those women who took part with me in the good news, with Clement and the rest of my brother-workers whose names are in the book of life.
So they learned again of Yahweh, "Did the man come here?" And Yahweh said, "Look, he is hiding himself among the baggage."
And she left him and returned to her father's house in Bethlehem, and abode with him four months.
And the angel of God said to him, Take the food and the unleavened cakes and put them down on the rock over there, draining out the soup over them. And he did so.
And the Philistines are standing on the mountain on this side, and the Israelites are standing on the mountain on that side, and the valley between them.
They found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to David, and gave him bread, and he ate; and they gave him water to drink.
not that I seek after the gift, but I seek after the fruit that is overflowing to your account;
And I treat thee also, my spiritual companion, help those women who have labored with me in the gospel, with Clement and the rest of my fellow laborers, whose names are in the book of life.
And the Philistines followed hard upon Saul and upon his sons; and the Philistines smote Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchi-shua, Saul's sons.
but Christ, as Son over his house, whose house are *we*, if indeed we hold fast the boldness and the glory of hope firm to the end.
They gave him a slice of fig cake and two raisin cakes; he ate and this revived him, because he had not eaten food or drunk water for three days and three nights.
And he said to him, "Please, if I have found favor in your eyes, show me a sign that you are speaking with me.
We have an altar from which those priests who are servants in the Tent may not take food.
David also arose afterward, and went out of the cave, and cried after Saul, saying, "My lord the king!" When Saul looked behind him, David bowed with his face to the earth, and showed respect.
For a land, drinking in the frequent rain and producing good branches for those for whom it is worked, hast a blessing from God:
And why will ye harden your heart, as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their heart? When he had wrought mightily among them, did they not let them go, and they departed?
And the kine went straight forward on the way to Beth-shemesh; they went by the one highway, lowing as they went; they turned not aside to the right hand or to the left; and the lords of the Philistines went after them as far as the border of Beth-shemesh.
And they rose in the morning, and worshipped before Jehovah: and they returned, and came into their house at Ramatha. And Elcana knew Anna his wife: and Jehovah remembered her.
And they oppressed and crushed the children of Israel in that old; eighteen years [they oppressed] all the children of Israel that were beyond the the Jordan in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
I said: Now will the Philistines come down upon me to Galgal, and I have not quieted the face of Jehovah. Forced by necessity, I offered the holocaust.
And all the sons of Israel go out, and the company is assembled as one man, from Dan even unto Beer-Sheba, and the land of Gilead, unto Jehovah, at Mizpah.
being complete as regards the fruit of righteousness, which through Jesus Christ, to God's glory and praise.
The servant answered Saul again, and said, "Behold, I have in my hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver. I will give that to the man of God, to tell us our way."
and Jonathan son of Saul delighted exceedingly in David, and Jonathan declareth to David, saying, `Saul my father is seeking to put thee to death, and, now, take heed, I pray thee, in the morning, and thou hast abode in a cellar, and been hidden,
For the Amorites would go on living in Mount Heres, in Aijalon, and in Shaalbim; but the children of Joseph became stronger than they, and put them to forced work.
and we will take ten men of one hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and one hundred of one thousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand, to get food for the people, that they may do, when they come to Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all the folly that they have worked in Israel."
Let your behavior be without covetousness; and be content with such things as ye have: for he hath said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee.
Then David bought up afterward and went out of the cave and called after Saul, "My lord the king!" When Saul looked after him, David knelt down with his face to the ground and bowed down.
And Jonathan spoke good things of David to Saul his father; and said to him: Sin not, O king, against thy servant, David, because he hath not sinned against thee, and his works are very good towards thee.
Seeing then that we have a great high priest, that is passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession.
And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and that thou camest not within the days appointed, and that the Philistines gathered themselves together at Michmash;
And Saul's uncle said to him and to his servant, Whither went ye? And he said, To seek asses therewith; and when we saw that they were nowhere, we went to Samuel.
And Saul said: I will give her to him, that she may be a stumblingblock to him, and that the band of the Philistines may be upon him. And Saul said to David: In two things thou shalt be my son-in-law this day.
And David said to Abishai Do not put him to death; for who, without sin, may put out his hand against the man on whom Jehovah hast put the holy oil?
And all Israel from Dan to Bersabee, knew that Samuel was a faithful prophet of Jehovah.
And the sons of Dan send, out of their family, five men of them, men, sons of valor, from Zorah, and from Eshtaol, to traverse the land, and to spy it out, and they say unto them, `Go, search the land;' and they come into the hill-country of Ephraim, unto the house of Micah, and lodge there.
But I exhort you, brothers, endure the word of exhortation, for I have written to you in few words.
And Saul made an oath to her by Jehovah, saying, By the living Lord, no punishment will come to you for this.
how much rather shall the blood of the Christ, who by the eternal Spirit offered himself spotless to God, purify your conscience from dead works to worship living God?
And because the children are flesh and blood, he took a body himself and became like them; so that by his death he might put an end to him who had the power of death, that is to say, the Evil One;
peace pursue with all, and the separation, apart from which no one shall see Jehovah,
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hands of the Philistines, and into the hands of the children of Ammon.
And all Israel had the news that Saul had made an attack on the Philistines, and that Israel was bitterly hated by the Philistines. And the people came together after Saul to Gilgal.
for if Joshua had given them rest, He would not concerning another day have spoken after these things;
By faith, they passed through the Red Sea as on dry land. When the Egyptians tried to do so, they were swallowed up.
And Samuel arose and went up from Galgal to Gabaa of Benjamin. And the rest of the people went up after Saul, to meet the people who fought against them, going from Galgal to Gabaa in the hill of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the people, that were found with him, about six hundred men.
And He for sin one sacrifice having offered -- to the end, did sit down on the right hand of God, --
And Dalila said to Samson: Tell me, I beseech thee, wherein thy greatest strength lieth, and what it is wherewith if thou wert bound thou couldst not break unloose.
Then one of the servants in answer said, I have seen a son of Jesse, the Beth-lehemite, who is expert at playing, and a strong man and a man of war; and he is wise in his words, and pleasing in looks, and Jehovah is with him.
and Jehovah doth turn back to each his righteousness and his faithfulness, in that Jehovah hath given thee to-day into hand, and I have not been desiring to put forth my hand against the anointed of Jehovah,
And they smite Moab at that time, about ten thousand men, all robust, and every one a man of valor, and not a man hath escaped,
Paul and Timothy, the servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus that are at Philippi, with the bishops and deacons:
And it came to pass on the day that Elkanah sacrificed, he gave to Peninnah his wife and to all her sons and her daughters portions;
And David saith, `Jehovah, who delivered me out of the paw of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear, He doth deliver me from the hand of this Philistine.' And Saul saith unto David, `Go, and even Jehovah, is with thee.'
And when the people of Ashdod, got up early on the morning after, they saw that Dagon had come down to the earth on his face before the ark of Jehovah. And they took Dagon up and put him in his place again.
because also in Thessalonica, both once and again to my need ye sent,
Now his father and mother had no knowledge that this was the purpose of Jehovah, who had the destruction of the Philistines in mind. Now the Philistines at that time were ruleth over Israel.
Therefore, my brethren beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, so stand fast in Jehovah, my dearly beloved.
And it cometh to pass, after a time, that the Bene-Ammon fight with Israel,
I also will no longer drive out any of the nations that Joshua left when he died from before them;
And the young man addeth to answer Saul, and saith, `Lo, there is found with me a fourth of a shekel of silver: and I have given to the man of God, and he hath declared to us our way.'
Jephthah came to Mizpah to his house; and behold, his daughter came out to meet him with tambourines and with dances. She was his only child. With her he had neither son nor daughter.
and Saul saith unto him, `Whose son thou, O youth?' and David saith, `Son of thy servant Jesse, the Beth-Lehemite.'
And the people repented them for Benjamin, because that Jehovah had made a breach in the tribes of Israel.
I will go out and stand at my father's side in the field where you are, and I will speak about you to my father; if I find out anything I will tell it to you."
So God subdued Jabin the king of Canaan before the children of Israel on that day.
Follow peace with all men, and holiness, without which no man shall see Jehovah:
And the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, and they said: What is this noise of a great shout in the camp of the Hebrews? And they understood that the ark of Jehovah was come into the camp.
To-morrow about this same hour I will send thee a man of the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him to be prince over my people Israel: and he shall save my people out of the hand of the Philistines: for I have looked down upon my people, because their cry is come to me.
Then all the children of Israel, and all the people, went up to Beth-el, the weeping and waiting there before Jehovah, going without food all day till evening, and offering burned burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
And I will raise me up a faithful priest, who shall do according to my heart, and my soul, and I will build him a faithful house, and he shall walk all days before my anointed.
Now therefore hearken to their voice: but yet testify to them, and foretell them the right of the king, that shall reign over them.
and, now, station yourselves, and I judge you before Jehovah, with all the righteous acts of Jehovah, which He did with you, and with your fathers.
For it became him, for whom are all things, and through whom are all things, who had brought many children into glory, to perfect a God of their salvation, by his passion.
But Samson said to them: Whereas you have done this, yet will I be revenged of you, and then I will be quiet.
And inside the second veil was the place which is named the Holy of holies;
For by this, the elders obtained testimony.
We have an altar from which those who serve in the tent do not have the right to eat.
The children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
And if the man said to him, "Let them burn the fat completely first, then take for yourself as you desire," then he would say to him, "No! Give it now! If not, I will take it by force!"
By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come.
Behold, to-day your eyes have seen how Yahweh had delivered you to-day into my hand in the cave. Some urged me to kill you; but I spared you; and I said, I will not stretch out my hand against my lord; for he is Yahweh's anointed.
And it came to pass after some time, that the children of Ammon fought with Israel.
And David answered Jonathan: Who shall bring me word, if thy father should answer thee harshly concerning me?
And after the second curtain was a tent called the holy of holies,
And he took his staff, which he had always in his hands: and chose him five smooth stones out of the valley, and put them into the shepherd's wallet, which he had with him, and he took a sling in his hand, and went forth against the Philistine.
but to-day you have risen against the house of my father and killed his sons, seventy men on one stone, and you have made Abimelech, the son of his slave woman, a king over the lords of Shechem, because he is your relative
and now, hearken, I pray thee, also thou, to the voice of thy maid-servant, and I set before thee a morsel of bread, and eat, and there is in thee power when thou goest in the way.'
And the kine took the straight way to the way of Beth-shemesh, and went along the highway, lowing as they went, and turned not aside to the right hand or to the left; and the lords of the Philistines went after them unto the border of Bethshemesh.
While they were with the house of Micah, they recognized the voice of the young Levite, and they turned aside there and said to him, "Who brought you here? What are you doing in this place, and what is your business here?"
equip you with every good thing to do his will, carrying out in us what is pleasing before him through Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory forever. Amen.
And Samuel said, As thy sword hast made women childless, so shall thy mother be childless above women. And Samuel hewed Agag in pieces before Jehovah in Gilgal.
and all this assembly do know that not by sword and by spear doth even Jehovah, save, that the battle Jehovah's, and He hath given you into our hand.'
See therefore, and take knowledge of all the lurking-places where he hideth himself, and come ye again to me with the certainty, and I will go with you: and it shall come to pass, if he be in the land, that I will search him out throughout all the thousands of Judah.
For the earth that drinketh in the rain that cometh oft upon it, and bringeth forth herbs meet for them by whom it is dressed, receiveth blessing from God:
But Hannah didn't go up; for she said to her husband, "Not until the child is weaned; then I will bring him, that he may appear before Yahweh, and rely there forever."
And the messenger of even Jehovah, saith to him, `Why this -- thou dost ask for My name? -- and it Wonderful.'
He judged Israel twenty years in the days of the Philistines.
Therefore David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go, and smite the Philistines, and save Keilah.
And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and encamped by the valley of Elah, and set the battle in array against the Philistines.
So they took their provisions and their trumpets into their hand, and he sent all the men of Israel, each one, to his tent; but three hundred of the men he kept; the camp of Midian was below him in the valley.
And when he came there, he had a horn sounded in the hill-country of Ephraim, and all the children of Israel went down with him from the hill-country, and he at their head.
Salute every one in Christ Jesus. The brothers with me salute you.
He will take a tenth of your flocks, and you yourselves will become his servants.
then it shall be, that whatsoever cometh forth from the doors of my house to meet me, when I return in peace from the children of Ammon, shall surely be the Lord's, and I will offer it up for a burnt-offering.
Therefore Eli said unto Samuel, Go, lie down; and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, Lord; for thy servant heareth. So Samuel went and lay down in his place.
In those days there was no king in Israel: every man did what seemed right to him.
and they find Adoni-Bezek in Bezek, and fight against him, and smite the Canaanite and the Perizzite.
Then the Ziphites went up to Saul at Gibeah, saying, "Is not David hiding among us in the strongholds at Horesh on the hill of Hakilah, which is south of Jeshimon?
saying, I will give the knowledge of your name to my brothers, I will make a song of praise to you before the church.
And Saul eyed David from that day and forward.
for the priesthood being changed, of necessities also, of the law a change doth come,
And Ibzan died, and was buried in Beth-lehem.
And the Philistines were humbled, and they did not come any more into the borders of Israel. And the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines, all the days of Samuel.
When he heard this, he agreed to their words, and took the ephod, and the idols, and the graven god, and departed with them.
Then Jesse called Abinadab, and made him pass before Samuel. And he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
And to whom Abraham gave a tenth part of everything that he had, being first named King of righteousness, and then in addition, King of Salem, that is to say, King of peace;
and he hath forty sons, and thirty grandsons, riding on seventy ass-colts, and he judgeth Israel eight years.
And Eglon got together the people of Ammon and Amalek, and they went and mastered both of Israel and took the village of palm-trees.
David heard in the wilderness that Nabal was shearing his sheep.
And the anger of Jehovah doth burn against Israel, and He saith, `Because that this nation have transgressed My covenant which I commanded their fathers, and have not hearkened to My voice --
And her lord rose up in the morning, and opened the doors of the house, and went out to go his way; and, behold, the woman his concubine was fallen down at the door of the house, and her hands were upon the threshold.
The kings came and fought, the kings of Chanaan fought in Thanach by the waters of Mageddo, and yet they took no spoils.
Go, please, make certain again! Find out and see exactly where he is and who hast seen him there! For they have said to me, 'He is very cunning.'
He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, And lifteth up the beggar from the dunghill, to set them among princes, and to make them inherit the throne of glory: for the pillars of the earth are the Lord's, and he hath set the world upon them.
And when men arose early on the morrow morning, behold, Dagon was fallen upon his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah; and the head of Dagon and both the palms of his hands were cut off upon the threshold; only the stump of Dagon was left to him.
Then said Micah, Now I know that Jehovah will do me good, seeing I have a Levite to my priest.
And as I may so say, Levi also, who receiveth tithes, paid tithes in Abraham.
And God did so that night; only the fleece was dry, and dew was on all the ground.
and she causeth him to go up with her when she hath weaned him, with three bullocks, and one ephah of flour, and a bottle of wine, and she bringeth him into the house of Jehovah at Shiloh, and the youth [is but] a youth.
And they that were slain in the same place were eighteen thousand men, all most valiant soldiers.
For a covenant hast effect after death; for what power hast it while the man who made it is living?
And the elders of Jabesh say to him, `Let us alone seven days, and we send messengers into all the border of Israel: and if there is none saving us -- then we have come out unto thee.'
And Samuel said to Saul, Why hast thou disquieted me, to bring me up? And Saul said, I am sore distressed; for the Philistines make war against me, and God is departed from me, and answers me no more, neither by prophets nor by dreams; therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest make known to me what I shall do.
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and put themselves in array against Gibeah, as at other times.
And when the men of Ashdod, saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel shall not abide with us; for his hand is sore upon us, and upon Dagon our god.
And Saul said to the Kenite, Go, depart, and go down from among the Amalekites, lest I destroy you with them; for ye showed kindness to all the children of Israel when they came up out of Egypt. And the Kenites departed from among the Amalekites.
And all the people went to Gilgal, and there they made Saul king before Jehovah in Gilgal, and there they sacrificed sacrifices of peace-offerings before Jehovah; and there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced greatly.
And straightway the children of Israel rising in the morning, encamped by Gabaa:
And Israel said, "Who in the assembly hast not come up from all the tribes of Israel to Yahweh?" For a solemn oath was taken concerning whoever did not come up to Yahweh at Mizpah, saying, "He will certainly be put to death."
And Samuel said: How shall I go? for Saul will hear of it, and he will kill me. And Jehovah said: Thou shalt take with thee a calf of the herd and thou shalt say, I am come to sacrifice to Jehovah.
For surely that our Lord hast sprang out of Judah, about which tribe Moses spoke nothing concerning priesthood.
And there was a young man out of Bethlehem-Judah of the family of Judah, who was a Levite, and he sojourned there.
Should I take my bread and my water and my food which I have slaughtered for my shearers and give it to men whom I know not where they are from?
And Samson said to her, If they should bind me with seven fresh cords which have not been dried up, then should I be weak, and be as another man.
always, in every supplication of mine for you all, with joy making the supplication,
Then broken were the horse-heels, By pransings -- pransings of itself mighty ones.
Between the passes, by which Jonathan sought to go over to the Philistines' garrison, there was a rocky point on the one side, and a rocky point on the other side: and the name of the one was Bozez, and the name of the other Seneh.
And the three companies blew the trumpets, and brake the pitchers, and held the lamps in their left hands, and the trumpets in their right hands to blow out; and they cried, The sword of Jehovah, and of Gideon.
And Zebah and Zalmunna fled, and he pursued them and captured the two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna, and he routed the entire army.
And that day Saul took David and would not let him go back to his father's house.
And David hath fled, and is escaped, and cometh in unto Samuel to Ramath, and declareth to him all that Saul hath done to him, and he goeth, he and Samuel, and they dwell in Naioth.
And ascent they lodged in Cariathiarim of Judah: which place from that time is called the camp of Dan, and is behind Cariathiarim.
And the priest answered David and said, There is no common bread under my hand, but there is holy bread; if the young men have kept themselves at least from women.
And he said, Out of the taker of food came food, and out of the strong came the sweet. And at the end of three days they were still not able to give the answer.
But now he hath obtained a better ministry, by how much also he is a mediator of a better testament, which is established on better promises.
Then he called hastily to the young man that carried his armor, and said to him, Draw thy sword, and slay me, that they say not of me, A woman killed him. And his young man thrust him through, and he died.
Now to our God and Father be the glory forever and ever! Amen.
Between her feet he bowed -- He fell, he lay down; Between her feet he bowed down, he fell, Where he bowed down, there he fell -- destroyed.
Samson went and caught three hundred foxes, and took torches, and turned tail to tail, and put a flaming in the middle between every two tails.
They said, "You have not advantage of us, nor oppressed us, neither have you taken anything from anyone's hand."
So his father went down to the woman, and made a feast for his son Samson: for so the young men used to do.
And it came to pass about ten days after, that Jehovah smote Nabal, that he died.
He said to Jether his first-born, "Get up, and kill them!" But the youth didn't draw his sword; for he was afraid, because he was yet a youth.
But this man, because he continueth ever, hath an unchangeable priesthood.
and the Spirit of Jehovah is on Jephthah, and he passeth over Gilead and Manasseh, and passeth over Mizpeh of Gilead, and from Mizpeh of Gilead he hath passed over to the Bene-Ammon.
And if they had called to mind that from whence they went out, they had had opportunity to have returned;
And they set up for themselves Micah's graven image, which he had made, all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
But he said to him, "Look, a man of God is in this village, and the man is honored. All that he says certainly comes true. So then let us go there; perhaps he will tell us about our journey on which we have gone."
The people served Yahweh all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders who outlived Joshua, who had seen all the great work of Yahweh that he had worked for Israel.
Salute all them that have the rule over you, and all the saints. They of Italy salute you.
Therefore we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things which we have heard, lest haply we should let them slipped.
Then David said to his men, "Each man strap on his sword!" So each one strapped on his sword, and David also strapped on his sword. about four hundred men went up after David, while two hundred remained with the baggage.
And some of the Hebrews passed over the the Jordan into the land of Gad and Galaad. And when Saul was yet in Galgal, all the people that followed him were greatly afraid.
They shall perish, but thou shalt continue: and they shall all grow old as a garment.
May Jehovah do so and so to Jonathan and add still more. But if my father shall continue in malice against thee, I will uncover it to thy ear, and will send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace, and Jehovah be with thee, as he hath been with my father.
But to the Son; Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: a sceptre of righteousness is the sceptre of thy kingdom.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred shekels of silver that were taken from thee, about which thou cursedst, and speakest of also in mine ears, behold, the silver is with me; I took it. And his mother said, Blessed be thou of Jehovah, my son.
So David set out early, he and his men, to leave in the morning to return to the land of the Philistines, but the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
And he had thirty sons who would ride on thirty donkeys, and they had thirty towns that are in the land of Gilead that they called Havvoth Jair until this day.
So the children of Israel served Eglon the king of Moab eighteen years.
As he saith also in another place: Thou art a priest for ever, according to the ordinance of Melchisedech.
And the children of Israel again did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah gave them into the hands of the Philistines for forty years.
`And now, let not my blood fall to the earth over-against the face of Jehovah, for the king of Israel hath come out to seek one flea, as pursueth the partridge that in mountains.'
So it was, when Israel had sown, that Midian, the Amalekites, and the children of the east came up against them.
And when David heard in the wilderness that Nabal was shearing his sheep,
And it cometh to pass, in his coming in, that he bloweth with a trumpet in the hill-country of Ephraim, and go down with him do the sons of Israel from the hill-country, and he before them;
And Benjamin came again at that time; and they gave them the wives whom they had saved alive of the women of Jabesh-Gilead; but even so they found not enough for them.
The children of Israel lived among the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Amorite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
that in the name of Jesus every knee may bow -- of heavenlies, and earthlies, and what are under the earth --
So David went, he and the six hundred men that were with him, and came to the brook Besor, where those that were left behind stayed.
He will keep the feet of his saints, and the wicked shall be silent in darkness, because no man shall prevail by his own strength.
And these are the golden sores which the Philistines returned as a trespass-offering to Jehovah: for Ashdod, one, for Gazah one, for Ashkelon one, for Gath one, for Ekron one;
For this Melchisedech was king of Salem, priest of the Most High God, who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him:
And his mother's brethren spake of him in the ears of all the men of Shechem all these words: and their hearts inclined to follow Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
And Jephthah saith unto them, `A man of great strife I have been (I and my people) with the Bene-Ammon, and I call you, and ye have not saved me out of their hand,
And his father-in-law, the girl's father, kept him there for three days; and they had food and drink and took their rest there.
And the men of the village got up early in the morning, and they saw the altar of Baal broken down, and the holy tree which was by it cut down, and the ox offered on the altar which had been put up there.
Now the ark of God was in the land of the Philistines seven months.
For by this the people of old were approved.
Then David took from her hand what she had brought for him, and he said to her, "Go up to your house in peace. See, I have listened to your voice, and I have granted your request."
And he bringeth down the people unto the water, and even Jehovah, saith unto Gideon, `Every one who lappeth with his tongue of the water as the dog lappeth -- thou dost set him apart; also every one who boweth on his knees to drink.'
and he judgeth Israel twenty and three years, and he dieth, and is buried in Shamir.
Again Gaal said: Behold, there cometh people down from the middle of the land, and one troop cometh by the way that looketh towards the oak.
David arose, and passed over, he and the six hundred men who were with him, to Achish the son of Maoch, king of Gath.
If then perfection was by the Levitical priesthood, (for under it the people received the law,) what further need was there that another priest should rise according to the ordinance of Melchisedech, and not be called according to the ordinance of Aaron?
And David said to Jonathan, Behold, to-morrow is new moon, and I should not fail to sit with the king at food; but let me go, that I may hide myself in the field until the third evening.
And Saul said to the Kenite, Go away, take yourselves out from among the Amalekites, or destruction will overtake you with them: for you were kind to the children of Israel when they came out of Egypt. So the Kenites went away from among the Amalekites.
(for they are become priests without the swearing of an oath, but he with the swearing of an oath, by him who said, as to him, Jehovah hast sworn, and will not repent [of it], *Thou* priest for ever [according to the order of Melchisedec];)
And when the children of Israel made prayer to Jehovah, he gave them a saviour, Ehud, the son of Gera, the Benjamite, a left-handed man; and the children of Israel sent an offering by him to Eglon, king of Moab.
And all the men of the tower of Shechem heard , and they entered into the stronghold of the house of god Berith.
And they hear regarding it -- the inhabitants of Jabesh-Gilead -- that which the Philistines have done to Saul,
Here I am! Testify against me before Yahweh and before his anointed one! Whose ox have I taken? Or whose donkey have I taken? Or whom have I exploited? Whom have I oppressed? Or from whose hand have I taken a bribe, that I may shut my eyes regarding him?then I will restore it to you."
And he said, In peace: I have come to make an offering to Jehovah; make yourselves clean and come with me to make the thereof. And he made Jesse and his sons clean, and sent for them to be present at the thereof.
but now they long for a better, that is, an heavenly, wherefore God is not ashamed of them, to be called their God, for He did prepare for them a city.
that at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow, heavenly and earthly and infernal ,
The child Samuel ministered to Yahweh before Eli. Yahweh's word was precious in those days. There visions were not frequent.
And now make a new cart, and take two milch cattle, on which there hast come no yoke, Tie the kine to the cart, and bring their calves home from them;
And she said to her young men, Go on in before me and I will come after you. But she said nothing to her husband Nabal.
And he showed them how to enter into the city. And they smote the city with the edge of the sword; but they let go the man and all his family.
And David put his hand in his bag and took out a stone and sent it from his leather band straight at the Philistine, and the stone went deep into his brow, and he went down to the earth, falling on his face.
Then the five men went on their way and came to Laish and saw the people who were there, living without thought of danger, like the Sidonians, quiet and safe; for they had everything on earth for their needs, and they were far from the Sidonians and had no business with Aram.
For when they were besieging the city, which before was called Luza,
The Holy Spirit is indicating this, that the way into the Holy Place wasn't yet revealed while the first tabernacle was still standing;
Saul cast his spear at him to strike him. By this Jonathan knew that his father was determined to put David to death.
And the men of Ephraim said to him: What is this that thou meanest to do, that thou wouldst not call us when thou wentest to fight against Madian? and they chid him sharply and almost offered violence.
And it came to pass, when Samuel was old, that he made his sons judges over Israel.
And Abimelech fought against the city all that day; and he took the city, and slew the people that were in it, and broke down the city, and sowed it with salt.
So he took the elders of the city and thorns and briers of the wilderness, and tore them with the same, and cut in pieces the men of Soccoth.
For we have had experience of him who says, Punishment is mine, I will give reward. And again, Jehovah will be judge of his people.
And this hath been done from that day forward, and since was made a statute, and an ordinance, and as a law in Israel.
Samuel spoke to all the house of Israel, saying, "If you are returning to Yahweh with all your heart, then put away the foreign gods and the Ashtaroth from among you, and direct your hearts to Yahweh, and serve him only; and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines."
Take heed, brethren, lest by any means there be in any of you an evil heart of disobedience, to depart from the living God.
And all Israel from Dan even to Beer-sheba knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of Jehovah.
Now this present which your servant hast brought to my lord, let it be given to the young men who follow my lord.
Therefore, because we have a great high priest who hast gone through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast to our confession.
for, lo, thou art conceiving and bearing a son, and a razor doth not go up on his head, for a Nazirite to God is the youth from the womb, and he doth begin to save Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.'
And Ehud goeth out at the porch, and shutteth the doors of the upper chamber upon him, and hath bolted ;
So they (the meeting) sent twelve thousand of the best fighting-men, and gave them orders, saying, Go and put the people of Jabesh-gilead to the sword without mercy, with their women and their little ones.
If they say thus to us, Stand still until we come to you, then we will stay in our place, and will not go up to them.
And he went down and spoke to the woman that had pleased his eyes.
For he put his life in danger and mastered both of the Philistine, and Jehovah gave all Israel salvation; you saw it and were glad: why then are you sinning against him who hast done no wrong, seeking the death of David without cause?
For, by the living Lord, the Saviour of Israel, even if the sinner is Jonathan, my son, death will certainly be his fate. But not a man among all the people gave him any answer.
And Samson said concerning them, Now shall I be more guiltless than the Philistines, though I do them a displeasure.
Then Samuel said to all Israel, "Look, I have listened to your voice regarding all that you have said to me, so I have set a king over you.
When they were a good way from the house of Mica, the men who were in the houses near Micah's house gathered together and overtook the children of Dan.
For God is my witness, how I long for you all in the heart of Jesus Christ,
And having a high priest over the house of God;
So they came together to Mizpah, and got water, draining it out before Jehovah, and they took no food that day, and they said, We have done evil against Jehovah. And Samuel was judge of the children of Israel in Mizpah.
And he said to his men, even Jehovah, forbid that I should do this thing to my master, Jehovah's anointed, to stretch forth my hand against him, for he is the anointed of Jehovah.
Do not therefore lose your confidence, which hath a great reward.
By faith Abel offered to God a greater sacrifice than Cain, by which he was approved that he was righteous, because God approved him for his gifts, and through it he still speaks, although he is dead.
And after him was Shamgar the son of Anath; and he smote the Philistines, six hundred men, with an ox-goad. And he also delivered Israel.
And every man of Israel is gathered unto the city, as one man -- companions.
And David goeth out whithersoever Saul doth send him; he acted wisely, and Saul setteth him over the men of war, and it is good in the eyes of all the people, and also in the eyes of the servants of Saul.
(for the law perfected nothing,) and the introduction of a better hope by which we draw nigh to God.
And the anger of Yahweh was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Cushan-Rishathaim, the king of Ram Naharaim; and Israel served Cushan-Rishathaim eight years.
And Saul came to Samuel in the midst of the gate and said: Tell me, I pray thee, where is the house of seer?
And he runneth unto Eli, and saith, `Here I, for thou hast called for me;' and he saith, `I called not; turn back, lie down;' and he goeth and lieth down.
And Abishai saith unto David, `God hath shut up to-day thine enemy into thy hand; and, now, let me smite him, I pray thee, with a spear, even into the earth at once -- and I do repeat to him.'
And his father saith to him -- also his mother, `Is there not among the daughters of thy brethren, and among all my people, a woman, that thou art going to take a woman from the uncircumcised Philistines?' and Samson saith unto his father, `Take her for me, for she is right in mine eyes.'
And the woman had a fat calf in the house; and she hasted, and killed it, and took dough, and kneaded it, and did bake unleavened bread thereof;
And after him Elon, the Zebulonite, judged Israel; and he judged Israel ten years.
Therefore, holy brothers, partakers of a heavenly calling, consider the Apostle and High Priest of our confession, Jesus;
And David said in his heart: I shall gone day or other fall into the hands of Saul: is it not better for me to flee, and to be saved in the land of the Philistines, that Saul may despair concerning me, and cease to seek me in all the borders of Israel? I will flee then out of his hands.
only, fear ye Jehovah, and ye have served Him in truth with all your heart, for see that which He hath made great with you;
But his master said to him, We will not turn aside into the city of a sojourner, which is not of the children of Israel, but we will pass along to Gibeah.
And the Philistines stood on the mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on the mountain on the other side: and there was a valley between them.
He said to his boy, "Run, find now the arrows which I shoot." As the boy ran, he shot an arrow beyond him.
Then Abimelech went up to mount Zalmon, he and all the people that were with him; and Abimelech took an axe in his hand, and cut down a bough from the trees, and took it up and laid it on his shoulder, and said to the people that were with him, What ye have seen me do, make haste, do as I have done.
Woe to us! Who shall deliver us out of the hand of these mighty gods? These are the gods that struck the Egyptians with all kinds of plagues in the wilderness.
Then died Ibzan, and was buried in Beth-lehem.
And Eli blessed Elkanah and his wife, and said, Jehovah give thee seed of this woman for the loan which is lent to Jehovah. And they went unto their own home.
When the Philistine got up and came and drew near to meet David, David ran quickly to the battle line to meet the Philistine.
that this shall be no grief to you, nor offense of heart to my lord, either that you have shed blood without cause, or that my lord hast avenged himself. When Yahweh hast dealt well with my lord, then remember your servant."
Even before they burned the fat, the priest's servant came, and said to the man that sacrificed, Give flesh to roast for the priest, and he will not accept boiled flesh of thee, but raw.
Depart not hence, I pray thee, until I come unto thee, and bring forth my present, and set it before thee. And he said, I will tarry until thou come again.
And Jehovah God of Israel delivered Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they smote them: so Israel possessed all the land of the Amorites, the inhabitants of that country.
But Yahweh said to Samuel, "Do not look at his appearance or at the height of his stature, because I have rejected him. For God does not see what man sees, for a man looks on the outward appearance, but Yahweh looks on the heart."
and almost all things are purified with blood according to the law, and without blood-shedding there is no remission.
While Israel lived in Heshbon and itself towns, and in Aroer and itself towns, and in all the cities that are along by the side of the of the Arnon, three hundred years; why didn't you recover them within that time?
And the prophet Gad said to David, Abide not in the stronghold; depart, and go into the land of Judah. Then David departed, and came into the forest of Hareth.
And Samuel said to Saul: Suffer me, and I will tell thee what Jehovah hath said to me this night. And he said to him: Speak.
And Jonathan spake good of David unto Saul his father, and said unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David; because he hath not sinned against thee, and because his works have been to thee-ward very good;
And he will take the tenth of your seed, and of your vineyards, and give to his officers, and to his servants.
I can do all things through Christ, who strengthens me.
And the weight of the golden rings that he requested was a thousand and seven hundred shekels of gold; besides ornaments, and collars, and purple raiment that was on the kings of Midian, and besides the chains that were about their camels' necks.
And princes in Issachar with Deborah Yea, Issachar right with Barak, Into the valley he was sent on his feet. In the courses of Reuben, Great the decrees of heart!
And it came to pass, when he saw her, that he rent his garments, and said, Alas, my daughter! thou hast brought me very low, and thou art one of them that trouble me; for I have opened my mouth to Jehovah, and I cannot go back.
"Speak to the lords of Shechem, 'What is better for you, that seventy men all from the sons of Jerub-Baal rule over you, or that one man rules over you?' Remember that I am your bone and your flesh."
The one preach Christ of contention, not sincerely, supposing to add affliction to my bonds, Onesimus,
And man riseth to pursue thee and to seek thy soul, and the soul of my lord hath been bound in the bundle of life with Jehovah thy God; as to the soul of thine enemies, He doth sling them out in the midst of the hollow of the sling.
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of heavenly calling, consider the Apostle and High Priest of our confession, Jesus,
David fled from Naioth in Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan, "What have I done? What is my iniquity? What is my sin before your father, that he seeks my life?"
When the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, they said, "What does the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews mean?" They understood that Yahweh's ark had come into the camp.
And they said, "There must be a remnant for Benjamin, so that a tribe will not be blotted out from Israel.
And David said unto Achish, But what have I done? and what hast thou found in thy servant so long as I have been with thee unto this day, that I may not go fight against the enemies of my lord the king?
And he found a fresh jawbone of an ass, and put forth his hand and took it, and slew with it a thousand men.
So the woman, running quickly, gave her husband the news, saying, I have seen the man who came to me the other day.
Now at that time Deborah a prophetess, the wife of Lappidoth, was judging Israel.
So Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, "May Yahweh call the enemies of David to account."
and tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the age to come,
He went to his father's house at Ophrah, and killed his brothers the sons of Jerubbaal, being seventy persons, on one stone; but Jotham the youngest son of Jerubbaal was left; for he hid himself.
Seeing therefore it remaineth that some must enter therein, and they to whom it was first preached entered not in because of disobedience,
And Saul sent to Isai, speaking: Let David stand before me: for he hath found favor in my sight.
And Adoni-zedek said, Seventy kings, whose thumb and great toes had been cut off, got broken food under my table: as I have done, so hast God done to me in full. And they took him to Jerusalem, and he came to his end there.
But you have to-day rejected your God, who himself saves you out of all your calamity and your distresses; and you have said to him, 'No! Set a king over us.' Now therefore present yourselves before Yahweh by your tribes, and by your thousands."
That from year to year the daughters of Israel assemble together, and lament the daughter of Jephte the Galaadite for four days.
because this the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel, after those days, saith Jehovah, giving My laws into their mind, and upon their hearts I will write them, and I will be to them for a God, and they shall be to Me for a people;
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, On this manner spake David.
And ye have cried out in that day because of the king whom ye have chosen for yourselves, and Jehovah doth not answer you in that day.'
And the Spirit of Yahweh rushed on him, and he went down to Ashkelon. He killed thirty men from them, and he took their belongings, and he gave festal garments to the ones that explained the riddle. He was angry, and he went up to his father's house.
Samuel said to Saul, "Why have you disturbed me, to bring me up?" Saul answered, "I am very distressed; for the Philistines make war against me, and God hast departed from me, and answers me no more, by prophets, or by dreams. Therefore I have called you, that you may make known to me what I shall do."
Now Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty man of valor, and he was the son of a harlot; and Gilead had begotten Jephthah.
But with whom was he grieved forty years? was it not with them that had sinned, whose dead bodies fell in the wilderness?
There was no loss of anything, small or great, sons or daughters or goods or anything which they had taken away: David bought it all back.
Where the forerunner Jesus is entered for us, made a high priest for ever according to the ordinance of Melchisedech.
Now there were men lying in wait, abiding with her in the chamber. And she said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. And he brake the withs, as a thread of tow is broken when it toucheth the fire. So his strength was not known.
He turned around from him to another opposite him and he spoke to him in the same way, and the people answered him as beforetime.
So now Yahweh, the God of Israel, hast dispossessed the Amorites from before his people Israel, and should you possess them?
And she brought it before Saul, and before his servants; and they did eat. Then they rose up, and went away that night.
And when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah came into the camp, all Israel shouted with a great shout, so that the earth rang again.
And Gideon son of Joash turneth back from the battle, at the ascent of the sun,
Saying: This is the blood of the testament, which God hath enjoined unto you.
And Samuel called to Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day. And all the people greatly feared even Jehovah, and Samuel.
When he had finished speaking, he threw the jawbone out of his hand; and that place was called Ramah Lehi.
when the ends of the sickles, and the hoes, and the forks, and the axes were blunted; and to set the goads.
And David said to Saul, "Your servant hast been a shepherd of the flock for his father. If the lion or the bear would come and carry off a sheep from the group,
And there fall of Benjamin eighteen thousand men -- the whole of these men of valor;
And there was sore war against the Philistines all the days of Saul: and when Saul saw any strong man, or any valiant man, he took him unto him.
And the woman cometh and speaketh to her husband, saying, `A man of God hath come unto me, and his appearance as the appearance of a messenger of God, very fearful, and I have not asked him whence he , and his name he hath not declared to me;
And when David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, Blessed be Jehovah, who hast pleaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and hast kept back his servant from evil; but even Jehovah, hast returned Nabal's evil upon his own head. And David sent and communed with Abigail, to take her as his wife.
And Manoah got up and went after his wife, and came up to the man and said to him, Are you the man who was talking to this woman? And he said, I am.
For it is clear that our Lord hast sprang out of Joda, as to which tribe Moses spake nothing as to priests.
Therefore I sent him the more speedily; that seeing him again, you may rejoice, and I may be without sorrow.
And the Philistines overtook Saul and his sons, and the Philistines killed Jonathan and Abinadab and Malki-Shua, the sons of Saul.
And they said unto him, We are come down to bind thee, that we may deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Samson said unto them, Swear unto me, that ye will not fall upon me yourselves.
And the Ziphites came to Saul to Gibeah, saying, Does not David hide himself in the hill of Hachilah, facing the waste?
And the men of Israel have turned, and the men of Benjamin are troubled, for they have seen that the evil hath stricken against them --
And may my God supply all your want, according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
And they answered them, and said, He is; behold, he is before you: make haste now, for he came to day to the city; for there is a sacrifice of the people to-day in the high place:
And we have both straw and provender for our asses therewith; and I have bread and wine also for me, and for thy handmaid, and for the young man with thy servants: there is no lack of anything.
But give thought to the days after you had seen the light, when you went through a great war of troubles;
and the golden mice, [according to] the number of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five lords, both fortified cities and villages of the peasantry; [and they brought them] as far as the great [stone of] Abel, whereon they set down the ark of Jehovah, is to this day in the field of Joshua the Beth-shemeshite.
saying, This the blood of the covenant which God hast enjoined to you.
David went up from there, and lived in the strongholds of En Gedi.
Why did you keep quiet among the sheep, hearing nothing but the watchers piping to the sheep?
How much more shall the blood of Christ, who by the Holy Spirit offered oneself unspotted unto God, cleanse our conscience from dead works, to serve the living God?
And they rise early in the morning on the morrow, and lo, Dagon is fallen on itself face to the earth, before the ark of Jehovah, and the head of Dagon, and the two palms of itself hands are cut off at the threshold, only the fishy part hath been left to him;
The border of the Amorites ran from the ascent of Akrabbim from Selah and upward.
By faith Abraham, when he was tested, offered Isaac, and the one who received the promises was ready to offer his one and only son,
And there was a man of the hill-country of Ephraim, whose name was Micah.
And the men of Israel rise -- also Judah -- and shout, and pursue the Philistines till thou enter the valley, and unto the gates of Ekron, and the wounded of the Philistines fall in the way of Shaaraim, even unto Gath, and unto Ekron,
But day and night they were like a wall round us while we were with them, looking after the sheep.
"Through the window she looked out, and cried: Sisera's mother looked through the lattice. 'Why is his chariot so long in coming? Why do the wheels of his chariots wait?'
And Saul said to him, Why have you made designs against me with the son of Jesse, giving him food and a sword and getting directions from Jehovah for him, and helping him to take up arms against me, and to be on the watch to make a secret attack on me as he is doing now?
And the sons of Israel do the evil thing in the eyes of Jehovah, and Jehovah giveth them into the hand of Midian seven years,
Now David had said, "Surely in vain have I kept all that this fellow hast in the wilderness, so that nothing was missed of all that pertained to him. He hast returned me evil for good.
And the heads of the Philistines are wroth against him, and the heads of the Philistines say to him, `Send back the man, and he doth turn back unto his place whither thou hast appointed him, and doth not go down with us into battle, and is not to us for an adversary in battle; and wherewith doth this one reconcile them himself unto his lord -- is it not with the heads of those men?'
Make an altar to Jehovah your God on the top of this rock, in the Ordered way and take the ox and make a burned oblation with the wood of the holy tree which hast been cut down.
For to me, to live is Christ; and to die is gain:
In those days there was no king in Israel. And in those days the tribe of the Danites was seeking territory for itself to live in, because until that day it had not been allotted territory among the tribes of Israel.
And he said unto him, Oh my Lord, wherewith shall I save Israel? behold, my family is poor in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
And do not forget to do good, and to impart; for by such sacrifices God's favor is obtained.
And he said unto him, Fear not; for the hand of Saul my father shall not find thee; and thou shalt be king over Israel, and I shall be next unto thee; and that also Saul my father knoweth.
And it came to pass when he had ended offering the gift, he sent away the people that had borne the gift.
and in fashion having been found as a man, he humbled himself, having become obedient unto death -- death even of a cross,
Then the men of the village said to Joash, Make your son come out to be put to death, for casting down the altar of Baal and cutting down the holy tree which was by it.
And Saul saith to the people who with him, `Inspect, I pray you, and see; who hath gone from us?' and they inspect, and lo, Jonathan and the bearer of his weapons are not.
Now on their way, when David came back after the destruction of the Philistine, the women came out of all the towns of Israel, with songs and dances, meeting David with melody and joy and instruments of music.
behold, I will put a fleece of wool on the threshing floor; if there is dew on the fleece only, and it is dry on all the ground, then shall I know that you will save Israel by my hand, as you have spoken."
May God's punishment be on David, if when morning comes there is so much as one male of his people still living.
And when he had made an end of offering the holocaust, behold Samuel came; and Saul went forth to meet him and salute him.
Revile Meroz -- said a messenger of Jehovah, Cursing, curse ye itself inhabitants, For they came not to the help of Jehovah, to the help of even Jehovah, among the mighty!
Will the men of Keilah deliver me up into his hand? Will Saul come down, as your servant hast heard? Yahweh, the God of Israel, I beg you, tell your servant." Yahweh said, "He will come down."
And Saul saw and knew that Jehovah was with David; and Michal Saul's daughter loved him.
So Jesse made Shammah pass before Samuel, but he said, "Yahweh also hast not chosen this one."
Salute all those leading you, and all the saints; salute you doth those from Italy:
And he said, Peaceably: I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah: sanctify yourselves, and come with me to the sacrifice. And he sanctified Jesse and his sons, and called them to the sacrifice.
looking stedfastly on Jesus the leader and completer of faith: who, in view of the joy lying before him, endured cross, having despised shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God.
And they gave answer, We will gladly give them. So they put down a robe, every man dropping into it the ear-rings he had taken.
Samuel answered Saul and said, "I am seer. Go up ahead of me to the high place, and you will eat with me today; then I will send you away in the morning. I will tell you all that is on your mind.
And Samson went and caught three hundred foxes, and took firebrands, and turned tail to tail, and put a brand in the midst between two tails.
The weight of the gold ear-rings which he bought from them was one thousand, seven hundred shekels of gold; in addition to the moon-ornaments and jewels and the purple robes which were on the kings of Midian, and the chains on their camels' necks.
Do all things without grumbling and questioning,
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
And when even Jehovah, raised them up judges, then Jehovah was with the judge, and saved them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge; for it repented even Jehovah, because of their groanings by reason of them that oppressed them and crushed them.
Blessed above women is Jael, Wife of Heber the Kenite, Above women in the tent she is blessed.
And he said to him: Behold, there is a man of God in this city, a famous man: all that he saith, cometh certainly to pass. Now therefore let us go thither, perhaps he may tell us of our way, for which we are come.
They slaughtered the bull, and they brought the boy to Eli.
So David and Abishai came to the people by night; and, behold, Saul lay sleeping within the trench, and his spear cleave in the ground at his bolster: but Abner and the people lay round about him.
And the watchers, rushing on Gibeah and over-running it, put all the village to the sword without mercy.
David therefore departed from there, and escaped to the cave of Adullam. When his brothers and all his father's house heard it, they went down there to him.
And Jonathan said, Do not have such a device: for if I saw that my father was designing evil against you, would I not give you word of it?
He came to the sheep pens besides the road, and a cave was there. Then Saul went in to refresh himself. Now David and his men were sitting in the innermost part of the cave.
And Zebul the ruler of the city heard the words of Gaal the son of Ebed, his anger was kindled;
And Micah said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite of Bethlehemjudah, and I go to sojourn where I may find a place.
So Saul took the kingdom over Israel, and fought against all his enemies on every side, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines; and whithersoever he turned himself, he vexed them.
And Jonathan said to David: Go in peace: and let all stand that we have sworn both of us in the name of Jehovah, speaking: Jehovah be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever.
And when the men of Israel turned again, the men of Benjamin were astonished; for they saw that evil was come upon them.
And the messenger of even Jehovah, saith unto Manoah, `If thou detain me -- I do not eat of thy bread; and if thou prepare a burnt-offering -- to even Jehovah, thou dost offer it;' for Manoah hath not known that He a messenger of Jehovah.
Now David was the youngest. The three oldest followed Saul,
For Jehovah will not forsake his people for his great name's sake: because it pleased Jehovah to make you his people.
And Samuel said to all the people, Do you see the man of the Lord's selection, how there is no other like him among all the people? And all the people with loud cries said, Long life to the king!
The children of Israel did that which was evil in Yahweh's sight, and served the Baals.
My heart is toward the governors of Israel, who offered themselves willingly among the people. Bless Jehovah!
They abandoned Yahweh, the God of their fathers, who brought them out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods, of the gods of the peoples who were around them, and bowed themselves down to them; and they provoked Yahweh to anger.
Therefore, my beloved brethren, and most desired, my joy and my crown; so stand fast in Jehovah, my dearly beloved.
And Samuel said: What meaneth then this bleating of the flocks, which soundeth in my ears, and the lowing of the herds, which I hear?
and they bury him in the border of his inheritance, in Timnath-Heres, in the hill-country of Ephraim, on the north of mount Gaash;
And Midian was stronger than Israel; and because of Midian, the children of Israel made caves for themselves in the mountains, and hollows in the rocks, and strong places.
And he gave them a thorough beating, and he went down and stayed in the hoof cloven of the rock of Etam.
And Gideon went up the route of those who dwell in tents on the east of Nobah and Jogbehah, and he attacked the army when it was off itself guard.
And it cometh to pass, on the morrow, that Saul putteth the people in three detachments, and they come into the midst of the camp in the morning-watch, and smite Ammon till the heat of the day; and it cometh to pass that those left are scattered, and there have not been left of them two together.
but if it bears thorns and thistles, it is rejected and near being cursed, whose end is to be burned.
(In the past in Israel, when a man went to get directions from God, he said, Come let us go to the Seer, for he who now is named prophet was in those days given the name of Seer.)
And Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, having three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
And David said to the Philistine: Thou comest to me with a sword, and with a spear, and with a shield: but I come to thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, which thou hast defied.
So David rose up early, he and his men, to depart in the morning, to return into the land of the Philistines, and the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
When the Philistines heard the noise of the shouting, they said, "What is the noise of this great shouting in the camp of the Hebrews?" Then they learned that the ark of Yahweh had come into the camp.
Wherefore God hath highly exalted him, and given him a name which is above every name:
O Jehovah, when thou wentest out of Seir, and passedst by the regions of Edom, the earth trembled, and the heavens dropped water.
When you come into the village you will see him straight away, before he goes up to the high place for the feast: the peoples are waiting for his blessing before starting the feast, and after that the guests will take part in it. So go up now and you will see him.
and the peace of God, which surpasses every understanding, shall guard your hearts and your thoughts by Christ Jesus.
A certain woman cast an upper millstone on Abimelech's head, and broke his skull.
With such force that the haft went in after the blade into the wound, and was closed up with the abundance of fat. So that he did not draw out the dagger, but left it in his body as he had struck it in. And straightway by the secret parts of nature the excrements of the belly came out.
concluding that God is able to raise up even from the dead. Figuratively speaking, he also did receive him back from the dead.
And I will go out and stand besides my father in the field where thou: and I will speak of thee to my father, and whatsoever I shall see, I will tell thee.
And he smote them from Aroer until thou come to Minnith, twenty cities, even unto Abel-Cheramim, with a very great slaughter; and the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
A bronze helmet was on his head, and he was clothed with scale body armor; the weight of the body armor was five thousand bronze shekels.
And the sons of Eli were wicked men. They didn't know Yahweh.
Why abodest thou among the sheepfolds, to hear the bleatings of the sheep? For the courses of Reuben there were great searchings of heart.
But the chiefs of Succoth said, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna even now in your hand that we are to give bread to your army?
So Achish straight away gave him Ziklag: and for that reason Ziklag hast been the property of the kings of Judah unto this day.
Do not multiply your words of pride, let not vain-glory come out of your mouth; For even Jehovah, is a God of knowledge, and by him actions are weighed.
To him succeeded Ahialon a Zabulonite: and he judged Israel ten years:
And David said, even Jehovah, who delivered me out of the paw of the lion and out of the paw of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said to David, Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
So they ran and took him from there, and when he took his stand among the people, he was taller than all the people from his shoulders and up.
Among all these soldiers there were seven hundred chosen men who were left-handed. Every one of them could sling a stone at a hair and not miss.
Now when Samuel heard all the words of the people, he repeated them in the ears of Yahweh.
And Midian is humbled before the sons of Israel, and have not added to lift up their head; and the land resteth forty years in the days of Gideon.
Women received by a rising again their dead, and others were tortured, not accepting the redemption, that a better rising again they might receive,
Then the children of Benjamin came out from Gibeah, cutting down twenty-two thousand of Israel that day.
Now of the things we are saying this is the chief point: We have such a high priest, who hast taken his place at the right hand of God's high seat of glory in heaven,
Then Samuel said to the people, "Come, let us go to Gilgal, and let us renew the kingship there."
And the fight was going badly for Saul, and the archers came across him, and he was wounded by the archers.
Then Zebah and Zalmunna said, "Rise and fall on us; for as the man is, so is his strength." Gideon arose, and killed Zebah and Zalmunna, and took the crescents that were on their camels' necks.
For if a man haply shall arise, and persecute thee, and seek thy life, the soul of my lord shall be kept, as in the bundle of the living, with Jehovah thy God: but the souls of thy enemies shall be whirled, as with the violence and whirling of a sling.
I have a maiden daughter, and this man hath a concubine, I will bring them out to you, and you may humble them, and satisfy your lust: only, I beseech you, commit not this matter against nature on the man.
Samuel said to Saul, "You have done foolishly. You have not kept the commandment of Yahweh your God, which he commanded you; for now Yahweh would have established your kingdom on Israel forever.
And he said to his boy: Go, and fetch me the arrows which I shoot. And when the boy ran, he shot another arrow beyond the boy.
Therefore the men of Jabesh said, To-morrow we will come out unto you, and ye shall do with us all that seemeth good unto you.
And Jerubbaal son of Joash goeth and dwelleth in his own house,
which we have as anchor of the soul, both rid and firm, and entering into that within the veil,
Through faith we understand that the worlds were formed by the word of God, so that things which are seen were not made of things which do appear.
So with these words David kept his servants back, and did not let them make an attack on Saul. And Saul got up and went on his way.
"But they forgot Yahweh their God; and he sold them into the hand of Sisera, captain of the army of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab; and they fought against them.
Kings came,they fought; Then fought the kings of Canaan; At Taanach, by the waters of Megiddo; They took no spoil of silver.
Yet I supposed it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother, and companion in labor, and fellow-soldier, but your messenger, and he that ministered to my wants.
There was no deliverer, because it was far from Sidon, and they had no dealings with anyone else; and it was in the valley that lies by Beth Rehob. They built the city, and lived in it.
And his wife answered him: If Jehovah had a mind to kill us, he would not have received a holocaust and libations at our hands, neither would he have showed us all these things, nor have told us the things that are to come.
and afterwards have the sons of Judah gone down to fight against the Canaanite, inhabiting the hill-country, and the South, and the low country;
They said to him, "Look, you are old and your sons do not follow in your ways. So then appoint a king for us to judge us, like all the nations.
And the house of Joseph sent to search out Beth-el; now the name of the city before was Luz.
And we also will be like all the nations: and our king shall judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles for us.
and David asketh at Jehovah, saying, `I pursue after this troop -- do I overtake it?' And He saith to him, `Pursue, for thou dost certainly overtake, and dost certainly deliver.'
She said, "Surely I will go with you; however, there will be no glory for you in the path you are taking, for Yahweh will sell Sisera into the hand of a woman." And Deborah stood up and went with Barak to Kedesh.
Now when Saul came back from fighting the Philistines, news was given him that David was in the waste land of En-gedi.
The children of Benjamin gathered themselves together out of the cities to Gibeah, to go out to battle against the children of Israel.
She sent and called for Barak son of Abinoam from Kedesh Naphtali and said to him, "Has not Yahweh the God of Israel commanded you? 'Go, march to Mount Tabor, and take ten thousand men from the descendants of Naphtali and Zebulun.
And the men of Ephraim said unto him, Why hast thou served us thus, that thou calledst us not, when thou wentest to fight with the Midianites? And they strove with him sharply.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Abide thou with me, fear not: for he that seeketh my life, seeketh thy life also, and with me thou shalt be saved.
"Jael shall be blessed above women, the wife of Heber the Kenite; blessed shall she be above women in the tent.
And there was war again: and David went out fighting the Philistines, causing great destruction among them; and they went in flight before him.
And David took all of the sheep, and the cattle they drove along in before that livestock, and they said, "This is David's plunder."
And David dwelt with Achis at Geth, he and his men: every man with his household, and David with his two wives, Achinoam the Jezrahelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal of Carmel.
(Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, detained before Jehovah; and his name was Doeg, the Edomite, chief of the shepherds that to Saul.)
he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, that is, death on a cross.
but when Saul saw that he was very successful, he was severely threatened by him.
And when Saul sent men to take David, she said, He is ill.
But encourage yourselves each day, as long as it is called To-day, that none of you be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin.
And David saved neither man nor woman, neither brought he any of them to Geth, speaking: Lest they should speak against us. So did David, and such was his proceeding all the days that he dwelt in the country of the Philistines.
Look! you have seen to-day how Jehovah gave you up into my hands even now in the hollow of the rocks: and some would have had me put you to death, but I had mercy on you: for I said, Never will my hand be lifted up against my lord, who hast been marked with the holy oil.
for [it is] evident that out of Judah hath arisen our Lord, in regard to which tribe Moses spake nothing concerning priesthood.
And depart not hence, till I return to thee, and bring a sacrifice, and offer it to thee. And he answered: I will wait thy coming.
And Samson said, With the jawbone of an ass, heaps upon heaps, with the jaw of an ass have I slain a thousand men.
Behold; if it goes up by the way of itself border to Beth Shemesh, then he hast done us this great evil; but if not, then we shall know that it is not his hand that struck us. It was a chance that happened to us."
And one of the people of that place said in answer, And who is their father? So it became a common saying, Is even Saul among the prophets?
and I ask also thee, genuine yoke-fellow, be assisting those women who in the good news did strive along with me, with Clement also, and the others, my fellow-workers, whose names in the book of life.
there salute you all the saints, and specially those of Caesar's house;
Whence neither the first was inaugurated without blood.
By faith Enoch was taken up to heaven so that he did not see death; he was seen no longer, for God took him away: for before he was taken, witness had been given that he was well-pleasing to God:
And the rulers of the Philistines came up to her and said, "Entice him and find out what makes his strength so great, and how we can overpower him, so that we may bind him up in order to subdue him; each of us will give you eleven hundred pieces of silver.
as to the rest, expecting till He may cause his enemies his footstool,
And she said, The glory is departed from Israel; for the ark of God is taken.
Men lying privately in wait with her, and in the chamber expecting the event of the thing, and she cried out to him: The Philistines are upon thee, Samson. And he broke the hordes, as a man would break a thread of tow twined with spittle, when it smelleth the fire; so it was not known wherein his strength Jay.
But he slew of the men of Bethsames, because they had seen the ark of Jehovah: and he slew of the people seventy men, and fifty thousand of the common people. And the people lamented, because Jehovah had smitten the people with a great slaughter.
Gideon the son of Joash died in a good old age, and was buried in the tomb of Joash his father, in Ophrah of the Abiezrites.
Now a short season, after, at the time of the grain-cutting, Samson, taking with him a young goat, went to see his wife; and he said, I will go in to my wife into the bride's place. But her father would not let him go in.
And Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning. And it was told Samuel, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and behold, he set him up a monument, and hast turned about, and passed on, and gone down to Gilgal.
And Samuel said to the people, "Do not fear! You have done all this evil; only do not turn aside from following Yahweh. But you must serve Yahweh with all your heart.
When they were by the house of Micah, they knew the voice of the young man the Levite; so they turned aside there, and said to him, "Who brought you here? What do you do in this place? What do you have here?"
And I took her and cut her in pieces, and sent the, parts into all the borders of your possession; because there never was so heinous a crime, and so great an abomination committed in Israel.
A minister of the holies, and of the true tabernacle, which Jehovah hath pitched, and not man.
And he said unto him, We are passing from Beth-lehem-judah toward the side of mount Ephraim: from thence am I: and I went to Bethlehemjudah, but I am now going to the house of Jehovah; and there is no man that receiveth me to house.
That you become not sluggard, but imitators of them, who through faith and patience shall inherit the promises.
For whom Jehovah loveth he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth.
Brethren, *I* do not count to have bought possession myself; but one thingforgetting the things behind, and stretching out to the things beforehand,
behold, I put a fleece of wool on the threshing-floor; if dew shall be on the fleece only, and it be dry upon all the ground, then shall I know that thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said.
But of which of the angels hast he said at any time, Take your seat at my right hand till I put all those who are against you under your feet?
Now, behold, I know that you will surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel will be established in your hand.
And she used to sit under the palm-tree of Deborah between Ramah and Beth-el in the hill-country of Ephraim; and Israel went up to her for judgment.
Now Zebul, the ruler of the village, hearing what Gaal, the son of Ebed, had said, was moved to wrath.
And Israel set liers-in-wait that were round about Gibeah.
And the two made a covenant before Jehovah: and David abode in the wood: but Jonathan returned to his house.
And to the sound of a horn, and the voice of words, the hearers of who made request that not a word more might be said to them:
And Saul, pointing his spear at him, made an attempt to give him a wound: from which it was clear to Jonathan that his father's purpose was to put David to death.
And Jephthah judged Israel six years. Then died Jephthah the Gileadite, and was buried in one of the cities of Gilead.
Now David and his men went up and raided Geshur and Girzites and the Amalekites, for they had been living in the land for a long time in With Shur and as far as the land of Egypt.
And David said in his heart, I shall now perish one day by the hand of Saul: there is nothing better for me than that I should speedily escape into the land of the Philistines; and Saul shall despair concerning me, to seek me any more in any border of Israel: So shall I escape out of his hand.
And the chiefs of the people, out of all the tribes of Israel, took their places in the meeting of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen armed with swords.
And Saul said, Give ear now, O son of Ahitub. And answering he said, Here I am, my lord.
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel; and he said, Because that this people hath transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and have not hearkened unto my voice;
by faith he did sojourn in the land of the promise as a strange country, in tents having dwelt with Isaac and Jacob, fellow-heirs of the same promise,
And he saith to him, `Lo, I pray thee, a man of God in this city, and the man is honoured; all that he speaketh doth certainly come; now, we go there, it may be he doth declare to us our way on which we have gone.'
And they say, `If ye are sending away the ark of the God of Israel, ye do not send it away empty; for ye do certainly send back to Him a guilt-offering; then ye are healed, and it hath been known to you why His hand doth not turn aside from you.'
Be strong, and behave like men, O you Philistines, that you not be servants to the Hebrews, as they have been to you. Strengthen yourselves like men, and fight!"
Yahweh forbid that I should stretched out my hand against Yahweh's anointed; but now please take the spear that is at his head, and the jar of water, and let us go."
And the people, the chief men of Gilead, said one to another, Who is the man that will begin to fight against the children of Ammon? he shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
Samuel said to the people, "Don't be afraid. You have indeed done all this evil; yet don't turn aside from following Yahweh, but serve Yahweh with all your heart.
So Samuel called to Yahweh; and Yahweh sent thunder and rain that day. Then all the people greatly feared Yahweh and Samuel.
And the children of Israel remembered not Jehovah their God, who had delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies on every side.
named by God a high priest after the order of Melchizedek.
He broke down the tower of Penuel, and he killed the men of the city.
And when he came, behold, Eli was sitting upon the seat by the way-side watching; for his heart trembled for the ark of God. And the man came to tell it in the city, and all the city cried out.
And the elders of Gilead say unto Jephthah, `Jehovah is Hearkening between us -- if according to thy word we do not so.'
and the border of the Amorite from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock and upward.
for we are the circumcision, who by the Spirit are serving God, and glorying in Christ Jesus, and in flesh having no trust,
And to Jesus the mediator of the covenant, and to the sprinkling of blood that speaketh better than that of Abel.
But if I say thus unto the young man, Behold, the arrows are beyond thee; go thy way: for Jehovah hath sent thee away.
And it happened, as soon as Gideon died, Israel returned and prostituted themselves after the Baals, and they made for themselves Baal-Berith as god.
and they turn aside there to go in to lodge in Gibeah, and he goeth in and sitteth in the broad place of the city, and there is no man gathering them into the house to lodge.
and the Philistines called to the priests and to those who practiced divination, saying, "What should we do with the ark of Yahweh? Inform us how we should send it to itself place."
And a certain woman cast an upper millstone upon Abimelech's head, and all to brake his skull.
This day doth Jehovah shut thee up into my hand -- and I have smitten thee, and turned aside thy head from off thee, and given the carcass of the camp of the Philistines this day to the birds of the heavens, and to the beast of the earth, and all the earth do know that God is for Israel.
For this reason Jesus was put to death outside the walls, so that he might make the people holy by his blood.
And the olive-tree said to them, Should I leave my fatness, wherewith by me they honor God and man, and go to wave over the trees?
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and slew thirty men of them, and took their spoil, and gave change of garments unto them that expounded the riddle. And his anger was kindled, and he went up to his father's house.
So all the elders of Israel gathered together and came to Samuel at Ramah.
By faith Enoch was translated that he should not see death; and was not found, because God had translated him: for before his translation he had this testimony, that he pleased God.
And the king saith, `Ask thou whose son this -- the young man.'
The angel of God said to him, "Take the food and unleavened wafers, and lay them on this rock, and pour out the broth." He did so.
In that day I will raise up against Heli all the things I have spoken concerning his house; I will begin, and I will make an end.
And Sisera hath fled on his feet unto the tent of Jael wife of Heber the Kenite, for peace between Jabin king of Hazor and the house of Heber the Kenite;
and it hath come to pass, she is riding on the ass and is coming down in the secret part of the hill-country, and lo, David and his men are coming down to meet her, and she meeteth them.
And even Jehovah, raised up judges, and they saved them out of the hand of those that despoil them.
Make prayers for us, for we are certain that our hearts are free from the sense of sin, seeking the right way of life in all things.
And what shall I yet say? for the time will fail me recounting about Gideon, Barak also, and Samson, and Jephthah, David also, and Samuel, and the prophets,
and these ten cuttings of the cheese thou dost take in to the head of the thousand, and thy brethren thou dost inspect for welfare, and their pledge dost receive.'
And the sons of Eli were worthless scoundrels; they did not know Yahweh.
And the woman came to Saul, and saw that he was sore troubled, and said to him, Behold, thy bondmaid hast hearkened to thy voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have hearkened to thy words which thou spokest to me.
And the children of the Kenite, Moses' father-in-law, had gone up out of the city of palm-trees with the children of Judah into the wilderness of Judah, which is in the south of Arad; and they went and dwelt with the people.
And the sound of the trumpet, and the voice of words; which voice that heard entreated that the word should not be spoken to them any more:
And Abdon the son of Hillel, the Pirathonite, died, and was buried in Pirathon in the land of Ephraim, in the hill-country of the Amalekites.
And Gideon said to God, If thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said,
And Gideon the son of Joash returned from the battle, from the ascent of Heres.
Now when Saul's old friends saw him among the band of prophets, the people said to one another, What hast come to Saul, the son of Kish? Is even Saul among the prophets?
but only the high priest enters into the second tent once a year, not without blood, which he offers on behalf of himself and the sins of the people committed in ignorance.
And David fled from Naioth in Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan, What have I done? what is mine iniquity? and what is my sin before thy father, that he seeketh patient?
Then the Israelites cried out to Yahweh, saying, "We have sinned against you; we have abandoned our God and served the Baals."
Gideon said to them, "I will not rule over you, neither shall my son rule over you. Yahweh shall rule over you."
And learned of him concerning their state. At that time the ark of the covenant of Jehovah was there,
being full of the fruits of righteousness, which are through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
And he judgeth Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
The Ziphites came to Saul at Gibeah, saying, "Is not David hiding on the hill of Hakilah opposite Jeshimon?"
And the children of Dan said to him, Say no more, or men of bitter spirit may make an attack on you, causing loss of your life and the lives of your people.
And it was told Sisara, that Barac the son of Ablinoem was gone up to mount Thabor:
But the woman, at the dawning of the day, came to the door of the house where her lord lodged, and there fell down.
But you did well to have care for me in my need.
And Saul said, Bring hither a burnt-offering to me, and peace-offerings. And he offered burnt-offering.
David and his men went up and raided the Geshurites, the Girzites, and the Amalekites; for those were the inhabitants of the land, who were of old, on the way to Shur even to the land of Egypt.
So Jonathan made a covenant with David's house, saying, "Yahweh will require it at the hand of David's enemies."
`The trees have diligently gone to anoint over them a king, and they say to the olive, Reign thou over us.
The adversaries of Jehovah shall be broken in pieces; out of heaven shall he thunder upon them: Jehovah shall judge the ends of the earth; and he shall give strength unto his king, and exalt the horn of his anointed.
He said, "This will be the custom of the king who will reign over you: he will take your sons and appoint them to his chariots and his horsemen, and they will run before his chariots.
But if you will still do wickedly; both you and your king shall perish together.
He went also into Gaza, and saw there a woman a harlot, and went in unto her.
And after him Ibzan of Beth-lehem judged Israel.
And Saul and his men went to seek him, and they told David, so he went down to the rock and stayed in the wilderness of Maon. When Saul heard this, he pursued David into the wilderness of Maon.
Now these things having been thus prepared, the priests go in continually into the first tabernacle, accomplishing the services,
Wherefore, as the Holy Spirit saith: To-day if you shall hear his voice,
Is it not wheat-harvest to-day? I will call unto Jehovah, and he will send thunder and rain; and ye shall perceive and see that your wickedness is great which ye have done in the sight of Jehovah in asking for yourselves a king.
And messengers hath sent Gideon into all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, `Come down to meet Midian, and capture before them the waters unto Beth-Barah, and the Jordan;' and every man of Ephraim is called, and they capture the waters unto Beth-Barah, and the the Jordan,
But exhort one another daily, while it is called To day; lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin.
The king said to her, "Don't be afraid! What do you see?" The woman said to Saul, "I see a god coming up out of the earth."
And it came to pass as she continued praying before Jehovah, that Eli marked her mouth.
And Saul said to Samuel, I have indeed hearkened to the voice of Jehovah, and have gone the way which Jehovah sent me, and have brought Agag the king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed the Amalekites.
And Yahweh said to Israel, "Did I not deliver you from the Egyptians, the Amorites, from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
But when morning was come, the Levite prepared to go on his journey. And his father-in-law said to him again: I beseech thee to take a little food, and establishing thyself, till the day be farther advanced, afterwards thou mayest depart. And they ate together.
And Saul goeth up from after the Philistines, and the Philistines have gone to their place;
Then all the elders of Israel being themselves, came to Samuel to Ramatha.
And they forsook Jehovah, and served Baal and Ashtaroth.
Samson lay until midnight, and arose at midnight, and laid hold of the doors of the gate of the city, and the two posts, and plucked them up, bar and all, and put them on his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of the mountain that is before Hebron.
I will shoot three arrows to the side as if I were shooting at a buckler.
And the man said unto Eli, I am he that came out of the army, and I fled to day out of the army. And he said, What is there done, my son?
So then take your stand again and see this great thing that Yahweh is going to do before your eyes.
So David took the spear, and the cup of water which was at Saul's head, and they went away: and no man saw it, or knew it, or awaked, but they were all sleeping, for a deep sleep from Jehovah was fallen upon them.
Will the citizens of Keilah deliver me up into his hand? will Saul come down, as thy servant hath heard? Jehovah, the God of Israel, I beseech thee, tell thy servant. And Jehovah said, He will come down.
And when the time was that Elkanah oblation, he gave to Peninnah his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters; portions:
And the priest said to them, "Go in peace. Yahweh is in before you on the journey you want to go on."
If then ye have dealt truly and sincerely with Jerubbaal and with his house this day, then rejoice ye in Abimelech, and let him also rejoice in you:
So David prevailed over the Philistine with a sling and with a stone, and struck the Philistine, and killed him; but there was no sword in the hand of David.
Now Heber the Kenite, separating himself from the rest of the Kenite, from the children of Hobab, the brother-in-law of Moses, had put up his tent as far away as the oak-tree in Zaanannim, by Kedesh.
It was so from that day forward, that he made it a statute and an ordinance for Israel to this day.
And the five men that went out to spy out the land (that is, Laish) responded and said to their relatives, "Do you know that there are in these houses an ephod, teraphim, and an idol of cast metal? So then, consider what you must do."
And Elkanah her husband, and all his house, went up to sacrifice to even Jehovah, the yearly sacrifice and his vow.
And he waited seven days, according to the set time that Samuel [had appointed]; but Samuel did not come to Gilgal, and the people were scattered from him.
Then Saul said to Yahweh the God of Israel, "Render a decision perfectly." Jonathan and Saul were chosen by lot and the people went out.
Yahweh forbid me from stretching out my hand against Yahweh's anointed one! So then, please take the spear that is near his head and the jar of water, and let us go."
But the fig-tree said to them, Am I to give up my sweet taste and my good fruit and go waving over the trees?
Then Saul drew near to Samuel in the gate, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, where the seer's house is.
And Judah captureth Azzah and itself border, and Askelon and itself border, and Ekron and itself border;
And the Philistines fought against Israel, and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gelboe.
You, Lord, at the first did put the earth on itself base, and the heavens are the works of your hands:
Wherefore also God highly exalted him, and granted him a name, that which is above every name,
Give attention, O kings; give ear, O rulers; I, even I, will make a song to Jehovah; I will make melody to Jehovah, the God of Israel.
Wherefore now rise up early in the morning with thy master's servants that are come with thee: and as soon as ye be up early in the morning, and have light, depart.
And he brought him into his house, and gave the asses provender; and they washed their feet, and ate and drank.
And Saul sent men to take David; and when they saw the band of prophets at work, with Samuel in his place at their head, the spirit of God came on Saul's men, and they became like prophets.
But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels for the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor; that he by the grace of God should taste death for every man.
And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and that thou didst not come within the days appointed, and that the Philistines were assembled at Michmash
Thus God rendered the wickedness of Abimelech, which he did unto his father, in slaying his seventy brethren:
And Judah saith to Simeon his brother, `Go up with me into my lot, and we fight against the Canaanite -- and I have gone, even I, with thee into thy lot;' and Simeon goeth with him.
And it came to pass on the morrow after the new moon, the second [day of the month], as David's place was empty, that Saul said to Jonathan his son, Why hast not the son of Jesse come to table, neither yesterday nor to-day?
David sent out spies, and learned that Saul was certainly come.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the evil spirit from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house: and David played with his hand, as at other times: and there was a spear in Saul's hand.
`And, now, lo, I know that thou dost certainly reign; and the kingdom of Israel hath stood in thy hand;
For verily he took not on him the nature of angels; but he took on him the seed of Abraham.
Wherefore receive this blessing, which thy handmaid hath brought to thee, my lord: and give it to the young men that follow thee, my lord.
So Samuel made all the tribes of Israel come near, and the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
to me to live Christ, and to die gain:
And afterward the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites, that dwelt in the mountain, and in the South, and in the valley.
And the people said unto Saul, Shall Jonathan die, who hath wrought this great salvation in Israel? God forbid: as Jehovah liveth, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground; for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people rescued Jonathan, that he died not.
And I rejoiced in Jehovah greatly, that now at length ye budded, again in caring for me, for which also ye were caring, and lacked opportunity;
Then David strapped on his sword over his fighting attire, but he tried in vain to walk around, for he was not trained to use them. So David said to Saul, "I am not able to walk with these, because I am not trained to use them." So David removed them.
There was a man of Ramathaimsophim, of the hill-country of Ephraim, and his name was Elcana, the son of Jeroham, the son of Eliu, the son of Thohu, the son of Suph, an Ephraimite:
Now the children of Israel were living among the Canaanite, the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite:
They were near Jebus, and the day was far spent, and the servant said to his master, "Please, come, let us turn aside to this city of the Jebusite, and let us spend the night in it."
and the lamp of God had not yet gone out, Samuel was lying in the temple of Yahweh where the ark of God was.
Then he said to her, Give me now a little water, for I have need of a drink. And opening a skin of milk, she gave him drink, and put the cover over him again.
And David's men say unto him, `Lo, we here in Judah are afraid; and how much more when we go to Keilah, unto the ranks of the Philistines?'
He smote of the men of Beth Shemesh, because they had looked into Yahweh's ark, he struck fifty thousand seventy of the men. Then the people mourn, because Yahweh had struck the people with a great slaughter.
Not that I speak as regards privation, for as to me *I* have learnt in those circumstances in which I am, to be satisfied in myself.
the Holy Spirit showing this, that the way of the [holy of] holies hast not yet been made manifest while as yet the first tent hast standing;
Then said Saul to his armour-bearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me through with it; lest these uncircumcised come and thrust me through, and abuse me. But his armour-bearer would not; for he was much afraid. Therefore Saul took the sword and fell on it.
And Saul and his men went to seek . And they told David; and he came down from the rock, and abode in the wilderness of Maon. And Saul heard , and he pursued after David in the wilderness of Maon.
And all Israel that had hid themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim, hearing that the Philistines fled, joined themselves with their countrymen in the fight. And there were with Saul about ten thousand men.
And Zebah and Zalmunna fled, and he pursued after them, and he took the two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna, and discomfited all the camp.
On the next day, the people went out into the field; and they told Abimelech.
Then the priest's heart was glad, and he took the ephod, and the teraphim, and the graven image, and went in the midst of the people.
The children of Israel did that which was evil in Yahweh's sight, and forgot Yahweh their God, and served the Baals and the Asheroth.
And Manoah said to the angel of Yahweh, "What is your name so that when your words come true we may honor you?"
and I say, Now do the Philistines come down unto me to Gilgal, and the face of even Jehovah, I have not appeased; and I force myself, and cause the burnt-offering to ascend.'
The king of the children of Ammon, however, did not give ear to the words which Jephthah sent to him.
And his father and his mother have not known that from even Jehovah, it , that a meeting he is seeking of the Philistines; and at that time the Philistines are ruleth over Israel.
And David's men said to him, "Look, to-day is the day about which Yahweh said to you, 'See, I am giving your enemy into your hand, and you can do to him whatever seems good to you.'" So David bought up and secretly cut the skirts of Saul's robe.
And Gedeon the son of Joas died in a good old age, and was buried in the sepulchre of his father in Ephra of the family of Ezri.
Saul's servants spoke those words in the ears of David. David said, "Does it seems to you a light thing to be the king's son-in-law, since I am a poor man, And lightly esteemed?"
And answering Saul, Jonathan said, He made a request to me that he might go to Beth-lehem,
And they called the name of the city Dan, after the name of Dan their father, who was born unto Israel; howbeit the name of the city was Laish at the first.
And as Samuel saw Saul, even Jehovah, answered him, Behold, the man of whom I spoke to thee! this man shall rule over my people.
And a spirit of sadness even Jehovah, is unto Saul, and he is sitting in his house, and his spear in his hand, and David is playing with the hand,
For on the one hand a preceding commandment is set aside because of itself weakness and uselessness
For he does not indeed take hold of angels [by the hand], but he takes hold of the seed of Abraham.
for I have no one like-minded, who sincerely for the things concerning you will care,
And this man went up out of his city upon the appointed days, to adore and to offer sacrifice to Jehovah of hosts in Silo. And the two sons of Heli, Ophni and Phinees, were there priests of Jehovah.
And that were in Hebron, and to the rest that were in those places, in which David had abode with his men.
Let us go in with true hearts, in certain faith, having our hearts made free from the sense of sin and our bodies washed with clean water:
And his concubine, that he had in Shechem, bore him a son, whose name was Abimelech.
Then the children of Israel removed the Baals and the Ashtaroth, and served Yahweh only.
And Saul said to them, "May you be blessed by Yahweh, for you have shown me compassion!
And Samuel took a young lamb, offering all of it as a burned oblation to Jehovah; and Samuel made prayers to Jehovah for Israel and Jehovah gave him a answer.
Then Samuel took the bottle of oil, and put the oil on him there among his brothers: and from that day the spirit of Jehovah came on David with power. So Samuel went back to Ramah.
For in one place he hast said of the seventh day, And God had rest from all his works on the seventh day;
Pray for us, for we trust that we have a good conscience in all things desiring to behave well,
how will we escape if we refuse so great a salvation who had itself beginning when it was spoken through the Lord and was confirmed to us by those who heard,
And Samson turneth aside the two middle pillars, on which the house is established, and on which it is supported, the one with his right hand, and one with his left;
Wherefore, coming into the world, he saith, `Sacrifice and offering Thou didst not will, and a body Thou didst prepare for me,
The things which came to you by my teaching and preaching, and who you saw in me, these things do, and the God of peace will be with you.
His legs were covered with them out of brass and screen on his back was a spear of brass.
And again, "I will trust in him." And again, "Behold, I and the children God hast given me."
And when the people were come into the camp, the elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath Jehovah smitten us to day before the Philistines? Let us fetch the ark of the covenant of Jehovah out of Shiloh unto us, that, when it cometh among us, it may save us out of the hand of our adversaries.
Then the king said, "You inquire whose son this young man is."
Nephtali also destroyed not the inhabitants of Bethsames, and of Bethanath: and he dwelt in the midst of the Chanaanites the inhabitants of the land, and the Bethsamites and Bethanites were tributary to him.
Samuel said, "Why then do you ask me, since Yahweh hast departed from you and hast become your adversary?
And let her eat nothing that cometh of the vine, neither let her drink wine or strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing; and whatsoever I have commanded her, let her fulfill and observe.
Then Saul took three thousand of the best men out of all Israel, and went in search of David and his men on the rocks of the mountain goats.
and ye have known, even ye Philippians, that in the beginning of the good news when I went forth from Macedonia, no assembly did communicate with me in regard to giving and receiving except ye only;
And he took a yoke of oxen, and hewed them in pieces, and sent them throughout all the borders of Israel by the hands of messengers, saying, Whosoever cometh not forth after Saul and after Samuel, so shall it be done unto his oxen. And the fear of Jehovah fell on the people, and they came out with one consent.
On the next day, an evil spirit from God came mightily on Saul, and he prophesied in the middle of the house. David played with his hand, as he did day by day. Saul had his spear in his hand;
And Hannah prayed, and said, My heart exulteth in Jehovah, my horn is lifted up in Jehovah; my mouth is opened wide over mine enemies; for I rejoice in thy salvation.
And they say, `What the guilt-offering which we send back to Him?' and they say, `The number of the princes of the Philistines -- five golden emerods, and five golden mice -- for one plague to you all, and to your princes,
And they said unto Jephthah, Come, and be our captain, that we may fight with the children of Ammon.
For I have no man of like mind who will truly have care for you.
And when he touched he sounded the trumpet in the hill-country of Ephraim, and Israel went down from the hill country with him leading them.
Let our lord now command your servants who are in before you to seek out a man who is a skillful player on the harp. Then when the evil spirit from God is on you, he will play with his hand, and you will be well."
And she said, I will certainly go with you: though you will get no honor in your undertaking, for Jehovah will give Sisera into the hands of a woman. So Deborah got up and went with Barak to Kedesh.
And the youth Samuel is serving even Jehovah, before Eli, and the word of Jehovah hath been precious in those days -- there is no vision broken forth.
Be obedient to those leading you, and be in subjection, for these do watch for your souls, as about to give money, that with joy they may do this, and not groaning, for this unprofitable to you.
But unto the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: a sceptre of righteousness is the sceptre of thy kingdom.
Then the rulers of the Philistines went out to war: and whenever they went out, David did more wisely than all the other servants of Saul, so that his name became greatly honored.
and Ehud came to him while he was sitting alone in his cool upper place. And Ehud said, "I have a message from God for you." So he bought up from his seat.
And there went out of the camp of the Philistines three companies to plunder. One company went towards the way of Ephra to the land of Sual;
Nobody takes this honor on himself, but he is called by God, just like Aaron was.
Then the remnant went down to the nobles; the people of Yahweh went down for him against the mighty.
So her husband Elkanah said to her, "Do what seems right to you; stay until you wean him. Only may Yahweh fulfill his word." So the woman remained and nursed her son until she weaned him.
Pursue peace with all, and holiness, without which no one shall see Jehovah:
They said to one another, "Who hast done this thing?" When they learned and asked, they said, "Gideon the son of Joash hast done this thing."
And he said unto him, Behold now, there is in this city a man of God, and he is an honorable man; all that he saith cometh surely to pass: now let us go thither; peradventure he can show us our way that we should go.
And the woman saw that it was Saul, and she gave a loud cry, and said to Saul, Why have you made use of deceit; for you are Saul.
And an evil spirit from Jehovah came on Saul, when he was seated in his house with his spear in his hand; and David made music for him.
We will take ten men of a hundred out of all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred out of a thousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand, to bring victuals for the army, that we might fight against Gabaa of Benjamin, and render to it for itself wickedness, what it deserveth.
and Benjamin cometh out to meet them from Gibeah on the second day, and destroy among the sons of Israel again eighteen thousand men -- to the earth; all these are drawing sword.
and thou hast built an altar to Jehovah thy God on the top of this stronghold, by the arrangement, and hast taken the second bullock, and caused to ascend a burnt-offering with the wood of the shrine which thou cuttest down.'
and thou hast heard what they speak, and afterwards are thy hands strengthened, and thou hast gone down against the camp.' And he goeth down, he and Phurah his young man, unto the extremity of the fifty who in the camp;
And [they of] Beth-shemesh were reaping the wheat-harvest in the valley; and they lifted up their eyes and saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.
And the Philistines say, `Who hath done this?' And they say, `Samson, son-in-law of the Timnite, because he hath taken away his wife, and giveth her to his companion;' and the Philistines go up, and burn her and her father with fire.
What more shall I say? For the time would fail me if I told of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, David, Samuel, and the prophets;
But will not the man through whom the Son of God hast been crushed under foot, and the blood of the agreement with which he was washed clean hast been taken as an the unholy thing, and who hast had no respect for the Spirit of grace, be judged bad enough for a very much worse punishment?
You have loved righteousness and hated lawlessness; because of this God, your God, hast anointed you with the olive oil of joy more than your companions.
And the Spirit of Jehovah was in him, and he judged Israel. And he went out to fight, and Jehovah delivered into his hands Chusan Rasathaim king of Syria, and he overthrew him.
They have come in unto the land of Zuph, and Saul hath said to his young man who with him, `Come, and we turn back, lest my father leave off from the asses, and hath been sorrowful for us.'
Saul said, "Cast lots between me and Jonathan my son." Jonathan was selected.
Then all the wicked men and base fellows of those who went with David, answered and said, "Because they didn't go with us, we will not give them anything of the plunder that we have recovered, except to every man his wife and his children, that he may lead them away, and depart."
For the man who comes into his rest hast had rest from his works, as God did from his.
Now there was a man of Benjamin, whose name was Kish, the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Bechorath, the son of Aphiah, the Benjamite, a mighty man of power.
After that the children of Judah went down to make war on the Canaanites living in the hill-country and in the south and in the lowlands.
And another went by the way of Beth-horon, and the third turned to the way of the border, above the valley of Seboim towards the desert.
Now no skilled craftsman could be found in all the land of Israel, for the Philistines had said, "So that the Hebrews cannot make swords or spears for themselves."
those who were full have hired themselves out for bread. those who were hungry are satisfied. Yea, the barren hast borne seven. She who hast many children languishes.
I therefore have not sinned against you, but you do me wrong to war against me. May Yahweh the Judge be judge to-day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon."
And David is in all his ways acting wisely, and even Jehovah, with him,
In that he says, "A new covenant", he hast made the first old. but that which is becoming old and grows aged is near to vanishing away.
It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
And Samson calleth unto Jehovah, and saith, `Lord Jehovah, remember me, I pray Thee, and strengthen me, I pray Thee, only this time, O God; and I am avenged -- vengeance at once -- because of my two eyes, on the Philistines.'
And Saul armed David with his armor, and he put a helmet of brass upon his head; also he armed him with a coat of mail.
And Saul's servants said to him, See now, an evil spirit from God is troubling you.
There is no one as holy as Yahweh, For there is no one besides you, neither is there any rock like our God.
And the chiefs in Issachar were with Deborah; and Issachar likewise was with Barak; into the valley he was sent to get him from behind. Among the clans of Reuben were great decisions of heart.
who, subsisting in the form of God, did not esteem it an object of rapine to be on an equality with God;
And the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel had gone up to Mizpah. And the children of Israel said, Tell , how was this wickedness?
And the man riseth to go, and his father-in-law presseth on him, and he turneth back and lodgeth there.
then this will not be an obstacle for you or a stumbling block of conscience for my lord either by the shedding of blood without cause or by my lord taking matters into his own hands. And when Yahweh does good to my lord, then remember your female servant."
And now, let, I pray thee, my lord the king hear the words of his servant: if Jehovah hath moved thee against me, let Him accept a present; and if the sons of men -- cursed they before Jehovah, for they have cast me out to-day from being admitted into the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
By faith Noah, having been warned about things not yet seen, out of reverence constructed an ark for the deliverance of his family, by which he pronounced sentence on the world and became an heir of righteousness that comes by faith.
And David saith unto Abner, `Art not thou a man? and who like thee in Israel? but why hast thou not watched over thy lord the king? for one of the people had come in to destroy the king, thy lord.
When his servants told David these words, it pleased David well to be the king's son-in-law. Before the deadline,
and David heareth that Nabal dead, and saith, `Blessed even Jehovah, who hath pleaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and His servant hath kept back from evil, and the wickedness of Nabal hath Jehovah turned back on his own head;' and David sendeth and speaketh with Abigail, to take her to him for a wife.
Be Jehovah judge, and judge between me and thee, and see, and judge my cause, and deliver me out of thy hand.
And the townsmen of Shechem put secret watchers on the tops of the mountains, and they made attacks on all who went by on the road and took their goods; and word of this came to Abimelech.
Let not my lord, I pray thee, regard this base fellow, Nabal; for as his name is, so is he: Nabal is his name, and folly is with him; and I thy handmaid did not see the young men of my lord, whom thou didst send.
Only let your behaviour do credit to the good news of Christ, so that if I come and see you or if I am away from you, I may have news of you that you are strong in one spirit, working together with one soul for the faith of the good news;
This thing is not good, that thou hast done: as Jehovah liveth, you are the sons of death, who have not kept your master, the Lord's anointed. And now where is the king's spear, and the cup of water, which was at his head?
Not that I have already received this, or have, been made perfect, but I winepress on if indeed I may lay hold of that for which also I was laid hold of by Christ.
That you may approve the better things, that you may be spiritual and without stumbling-block unto the day of Christ,
Wherein God, willing to show more abundantly to the heirs of the promise the unchangeableness of his purpose, intervened by an oath,
And when David's servants came, they spoke to Nabal all these words in David's name: and then held their peace.
And his sons walked not in his ways, but turned aside after lucre, and took bribe, and perverted justice.
And the chief men of Succoth said, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna already in thy hand, that we should give bread to thine army?
But afterwards they cried to Jehovah, and said: We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and have served the Baalim and Astaroth: but now deliver us from the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.
And her husband rose up and went after her, to speak kindly to her, to bring her again; and his servant was with him, and a couple of asses. And she brought him into her father's house; and when the father of the damsel saw him he rejoiced to meet him.
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever.
And the king saith to Doeg, `Turn round thou, and come against the priests;' and Doeg the Edomite turneth round, and cometh himself against the priests, and putteth to death in that day eighty and five men bearing a linen ephod,
They traded all the territory of the Amorites from the the Arnon up to the Jabbok, and from the wilderness up to the the Jordan.
Are they not all helping spirits, who are sent out as servants to those whose heritage will be salvation?
And David receiveth from her hand that which she hath brought to him, and to her he hath said, `Go up in peace to thy house; see, I have hearkened to thy voice, and accept thy face.'
and they turn and flee toward the wilderness, unto the rock of Rimmon; and they glean of them in the highways five thousand men, and follow after them unto Gidom, and smite of them two thousand men.
So make images of the growths caused by your disease and of the mice which are damaging your land; and give glory to the God of Israel: it may be that the weight of his hand will be lifted from you and from your gods and from your land.
Now Samson went down to Timna, and saw a woman in Timna, of the daughters of the Philistines;
And there escapeth one son of Ahimelech, son of Ahitub, and his name Abiathar, and he fleeth after David,
And Nabal gave them his answer and said, Who is David? who is the son of Jesse? there are a number of servants in these days running away from their masters.
And Manoah said to his wife, Death will certainly be our fate, for it is a god whom we have seen.
Some indeed preach Christ even of envy and strife; and some of good will;
But the things that were gain to me, the same I have counted loss for Christ.
For where there is a will, it is a necessities for the death of the one who made the will to be established.
and she is dwelling under the palm-tree of Deborah between Ramah and Beth-El, in the hill-country of Ephraim, and the sons of Israel go up unto her for judgment.
And the Spirit of God came upon Saul when he heard these words, and his anger was kindled greatly.
For you both had compassion on them that were in hordes, and took with joy the being stripped of your own goods, knowing that you have a better and a everlasting substance.
For our life is in heaven; from whence also we look for the Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ;
Therefore because the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself in like manner hath been partaker of the same: that, through death, he might destroy him who had the empire of death, that is to say, the devil:
Then the men of Beth Shemesh asked, "Who is able to stand before Yahweh, this holy God? And to whom shall it go up from us?"
The Gileadites took the fords of the Jordan against the Ephraimites. When those of Ephraim said, "Let me go over," the men of Gilead said to him, "Are you an Ephraimite?" If he said, "No";
Salute every one in Christ Jesus. The brothers who are with me salute you.
And Samson said, "Let me die with the Philistines." And he push with all his strength, and the house fell on the rulers and all of the people who were with him. And the dead whom he killed in his death were more than those he killed in his life.
But the servant said in answer, I have here a fourth part of a shekel of silver: I will give that to the man of God, and he will give us directions about our way.
But there was a strong tower in the middle of the city, and all the men, women, and lords of the city fled there and shut themselves in; and they went up to the roof of the tower.
But in the middle of the village there was a strong tower, to which all the men and women of the village went in flight and, the shutting themselves in, went up to the roof of the tower.
And inasmuch as [it is] not apart from oath, (for those indeed apart from oath are become priests,
that Jehovah sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, who said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought you up from Egypt, and brought you forth out of the house of bondage;
David answered the priest, and said to him, "Truly, women have been kept from us as usual these three days. When I came out, the vessels of the young men were holy, though it was only a common journey. How much more then to-day shall their vessels be holy?"
And Abimelech ruled over Israel three years.
Then Saul fell straightway all along on the earth, and was sore afraid, because of the words of Samuel: and there was no strength in him; for he had eaten no bread all the day, nor all the night.
And Jonathan Saul's son arose, and went to David into the wood, and strengthened his hand in God.
And when the Philistine, taking note, saw David, he had a poor opinion of him: for he was only a boy, red-haired and good-looking.
and a frontlet of brass on his feet, and a spear of brass between his shoulders,
Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel, after weeping for him, had put his body in itself last resting-place in Ramah, his town. And Saul had put away from the land all those who had control of spirits and who made use of secret arts.
Now therefore, O king, come down. According to all the desire of your soul to come down; and our part will be to deliver him up into the king's hand."
And David riseth and fleeth on that day from the face of Saul, and cometh in unto Achish king of Gath;
And they said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, why hast this fate come on Israel, that to-day one tribe hast been cut off from Israel?
And the angel of Yahweh said to Manoah, "Let the woman be attentive to all that I said.
And I will raise up for myself a faithful priest, shall do according to what is in my heart and in my mind, and I will build him a sure house; and he shall walk before mine anointed continually.
Then the old man said, Peace be with thee; only let all thy wants lie on me; but lodge not in the street.
And Eliab, his oldest brother, hearing what David said to the men, was moved to wrath against David, and said, Why have you come here? Into whose care have you given that little flock of sheep in the waste land? I have knowledge of your pride and the evil of your heart, you have come down to see the fight.
And Saul said, Blessed be ye of Jehovah; for ye have compassion upon me.
Whose voice then shook the earth: but now he hath promised, saying, Yet once more I shake not the earth only, but also heaven.
Woe unto us! who shall deliver us out of the hand of these mighty Gods? these are the Gods that smote the Egyptians with all the plagues in the wilderness.
For not to messengers did He subject the coming world, concerning which we speak,
And Nobe the city of the priests he smote with the edge of his sword, both men and women, children, and sucklings, and ox and ass, and sheep with the edge of the sword.
He divided the three hundred men into three bands, and he put into the hands of all them trumpets, and empty pitchers, with torches within the pitchers.
And he taketh the elders of the city, and the thorns of the wilderness, and the threshing instruments, and teacheth by them the men of Succoth,
You will hear what they say; and, afterward your hands will be strengthened to go down into the camp." And he went down with Purah his servant to the outermost part of the armed men who were in the camp.
And David answereth and saith, `Lo, the king's spear; and let one of the young men pass over, and receive it;
But a certain fearful expectation of justice, and a fierceness of fire which will devour the adversaries.
Have I to-day begun to inquire of God for him? Be it far from me! Don't let the king impute anything to his servant, nor to all the house of my father; for your servant knows nothing of all this, less or more."
For they came up with their cattle and their tents, and they came as locusts for multitude; for they and their camels were without number: and they entered into the land to destroy it.
And it came to pass on the fourth day, when men arose early in the morning, that he rose up to depart: and the damsel's father said unto his son in law, Comfort thy heart with a morsel of bread, and afterward go your way.
Now these things having been prepared in this way, the priests enter into the first tent continually as they accomplish their service,
Then Jael, Heber's wife, took a tent-pin and a hammer and went up to him quietly, driving the pin into his head, and it went through his head into the earth, for he was in a deep sleep from weariness; and so he came to his end.
Gideon took ten men from his servants, and he did just as Yahweh told him; and because he was too afraid of his father's family and the men of the city to do it during the day, he did it during night.
And about ten days after, Jehovah sent disease on Nabal and death came to him.
and he, because of his remaining -- to the age, hath the priesthood not transient,
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We have sinned: do thou unto us whatsoever seemeth good unto thee; deliver us only, we pray thee, this day.
Are they not getting, are they not parting the goods among them: a young girl or two to every man; and to Sisera robes of the embroiderer, coloured worked in fair colors on this side and on that, for the neck of the queen?
And he cried to Jehovah asking help against the Madianites.
And Saul saith, `Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and we prey upon them till the light of the morning, and leave not a man of them.' And they say, `All that is good in thine eyes do.' And the priest saith, `Let us draw near hither unto God.'
When Gideon had come, behold, there was a man telling a dream to his fellow. He said, "Behold, I dreamed a dream; and behold, a cake of barley bread tumbled into the camp of Midian, and came to the tent, and struck it so that it fell, and turned it upside down, so that the tent lay flat."
Then Samson put his arms round the two middle pillars supporting the house, laying his weight on them, on one with his right hand and on the other with his left.
but emptied himself by taking the form of a slave, by becoming in the likeness of people. And being found in appearance like a man,
Then Samuel took Saul and his servant into the guest chamber, and made them take the chief place among all the guests who were there, about thirty persons.
So he made clear to them the way into the village, and they put it to the sword; but they let the man and all his family get away safe.
Be ye imitators of me, brethren, and observe them that walk so as you have our model.
Then Jephthah gathered together all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim. The men of Gilead struck Ephraim, because they said, "You are fugitives of Ephraim, you Gileadites, in the middle of Ephraim, and in the middle of Manasseh."
And David sent ten young men, and said to them, Go up to Carmel and go to Nabal, and say kind words to him in my name;
And behold the men of that city in the night beset the house wherein I was, intending to kill me, and abused my wife with an incredible fury of lust, so that at last she died.
So you must show loyal love to your servant, for you have brought your servant into a covenant of Yahweh with you. But if there is guilt in me, then kill me yourself! But why should you bring me to your father?"
And David said, `Only, in vain I have kept all that this hath in the wilderness, and nothing hath been looked after of all that he hath, and he turneth back to me evil for good;
and God sendeth an evil spirit between Abimelech and the masters of Shechem, and the masters of Shechem deal treacherously with Abimelech,
and Kish father of Saul, and Ner father of Abner son of Ahiel.
For this reason, as we are circled by so great a cloud of witnesses, putting off every weight, and the sin into which we come so readily, let us keep on running in the way which is marked out for us,
And when Samuel was turning round to go away, Saul took the skirt of his robe in his hand, and the cloth came away.
Then Manue prayed to Jehovah, and said: I beseech thee, O Jehovah, that the mail of God, whom thou didst send, may come again, and teach us what we ought to do concerning the child that shall be born.
quenched the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, from weakness were made strong, grew mighty in war, and caused foreign armies for safety.
What then? notwithstanding, every way, whether in pretence, or in truth, Christ is preached; and I therein do rejoice, yea, and will rejoice.
Gilead abode beyond the Jordan; And Dan, why did he remain in ships? Asher sat on the sea-shore, And abode in his creeks.
Yahweh's anger burned against Israel, and he delivered them into the hands of raiders who plundered them. He sold them into the hands of their enemies all around, so that they could no longer stand before their enemies.
Give ear to those who are rulers over you, and do as they say: for they keep watch over your souls, ready to give account of them; let them be able to do this with joy and not with sorrow, because that would be of no profit to you.
And the princes of Succoth said, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna now in thy hand, that we should give bread unto thy army?
I am able to do all things through him who gives me strength.
Then Ehud went out onto the porch, and shut the doors of the upper room on him, and locked them.
And the Levite was content to dwell with the man; and the young man was to him as one of his sons.
Then Gideon said to him, O my lord, if Jehovah is with us why hast all this come on us? And where are all his works of power, of which our fathers have given us word, saying, Did not Jehovah take us out of Egypt? But now he hast given us up, handing us over to the power of Midian.
In the morning her master got up, and opening the door of the house went out to go on his way; and he saw his servant-wife stretched on the earth at the door of the house with her hands on the step.
let your forbearance be known to all men; Jehovah near;
If they shall fall away, to renew them again unto repentance; seeing they crucify to themselves the Son of God afresh, and put him to an open shame.
So I have done no wrong against you, but you are doing wrong to me in fighting against me: may Jehovah, who is Judge this day, be judge between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
and the sons of Eli sons of worthlessness, they have not known Jehovah.
And Deborah a prophetess, the wife of Lapidoth, she judged Israel at that time.
From henceforth expecting, until his enemies be made his footstool.
If he be able to fight with me, and to smite me, then will we be your servants; but if I overcome and smite him, then shall ye be our servants and serve us.
But I considered it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother and fellow worker and fellow soldier, but your messenger and servant of my need,
And the men of Israel turned again upon the children of Benjamin, and smote them with the edge of the sword, as well the men of every city, as the beast, and all that came to hand: also they set on fire all the cities that they came upon.
And the six hundred men stood before the door, appointed with their arms.
Thou didst make him some little less than messengers, with glory and honor Thou didst crown him, and didst set him over the works of Thy hands,
And Judah went against the Canaanites living in Hebron (the former name of Hebron was Kiriath Arba). And they defeated Sheshai, Ahiman, and Talmai.
And they took the two chiefs of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and they put Oreb to death at the rock of Oreb and Zeeb they put to death at the place of the grape-crushing in Zeeb, and they went after Midian: but the heads of Oreb and Zeeb they took across the Jordan to Gideon.
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servants unto Jehovah thy God, that we die not: for we have added unto all our sins this evil, to ask us a king.
With whom was he displeased forty years? Wasn't it with those who sinned, whose bodies fell in the wilderness?
I pray that this people were under my hand! Then I would remove Abimelech." He said to Abimelech, "Increase your army, and come out!"
Yahweh said to Samuel, "How long will you mourn for Saul, since I have rejected him from being king over Israel? Fill your horn with oil, and go. I will send you to Jesse the Bethlehemite; for I have provided a king for myself among his sons."
As to the rest, my brethren, rejoice in Jehovah. To write the same things to you, to me indeed is not wearisome, but to you it is necessary.
Then David went over to the other side, and stood on the top of a hill afar off; a great space being between them:
And even Jehovah, saith unto Samuel, `Lo, I am doing a thing in Israel, at which two ears of every one hearing it do tingle.
And Judah took Gazah and itself border, and Ashkelon and itself border, and Ekron and itself border.
And she made him sleep upon her knees; and she called for a man, and she caused him to shave off the seven locks of his head; and she began to afflict him, and his strength went from him.
Now therefore, my lord, Jehovah liveth, and thy soul liveth, who hath withholden thee from coming to blood, and hath saved thy hand to thee: and now let thy enemies be as Nabal, and all they that seek evil to my lord.
Now after this, he was in love with a woman in the valley of Sorek, named Delilah.
So David and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the Philistines, and brought away their cattle, and smote them with a great slaughter. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
And Samuel answered Saul, and said, I am the seer: go up before me unto the high place; for ye shall eat with me to day, and to-morrow I will let thee go, and will tell thee all that is in thy heart.
Why did you sit among the sheepfolds? To hear the whistling for the sheep? At the watercourses of Reuben, there were great searchings of heart.
so the Asherites lived in the midst of the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land, for they did not drive them out.
But they that were gone into the house of young man, went about to take away the graven god, and the ephod, and the theraphim, and the molten god, and the priest stood before the door, the six hundred valiant men waiting not far off.
For all seek the things that are their own; not the things that are Jesus Christ's.
And his armorbearer said to him: Do all that pleaseth thy mind; go whither thou wilt, and I will be with thee wheresoever thou hast a mind.
Now in time past, in Israel when a man went to consult God he spoke thus: Come, let us go to the seer. For he that is now called a prophet, in time past was called a seer.
that this is not to thee for a stumbling-block, and for a stumbling-block of heart to my lord -- either to shed blood for nought, or my lord's restraining himself; and Jehovah hath done good to my lord, and thou hast remembered thy handmaid.'
And as Samuel turned to go away, laid hold upon the skirt of his robe, and it rent.
And Israel got up in the morning, and they encamped against Gibeah.
If they shall speak thus to us: Tarry till we come to you: let us stand still in our place, and not go up to them.
So David went, he and the six hundred men that were with him, and they came to the torrent Besor: and some being weary stayed there.
Then Samuel said, "Why do you ask me, since Yahweh hast turned away from you and hast become your enemy?
This is the agreement which I will make with them after those days, says Jehovah; I will put my laws in their heart, writing them in their minds; he said,
who serve a copy and shadow of the heavenly things, even as Moses was warned by God when he was about to make the tabernacle, for he said, "See, you shall make everything according to the pattern that was shown to you on the mountain."
and God turneth back the evil of Abimelech which he did to his father to slay his seventy brethren;
Ask thy young men, and they will show thee. Wherefore let the young men find favor in thine eyes: for we come in a good day; give, I pray thee, whatsoever cometh to thy hand unto thy servants, and to thy son David.
He gathered to himself the Ammonites and Amalekites, and he went and defeated Israel, and they took possession of the city of palms.
And Israel cried out to Yahweh, and Yahweh raised up for them a deliverer, Ehud son of Gera, the Benjaminite and a left-handed man. And Israel sent a tribute to Eglon king of Moab through him.
Then Saul said to Samuel, "I have sinned because I have transgressed the commandment of Yahweh and your words, for I feared the troops and I listened to their voice.
And this is the thing which ye shall do: ye shall utterly destroy every male, and every woman that hath lain with man.
Go on loving your brothers in the faith.
Go and cry to the gods which you have chosen. Let them save you in the time of your distress!"
Women received their dead again by resurrection; others were tortured, not having accepted those that escape, that they might get a better resurrection;
And Jonathan the son of Saul arose, and went to David into the wood, and strengthened his hands in God: and he said to him:
And they laid the ark of God upon the cart, and the little vial that had in it the golden mice and the likeness of the emerods.
What! are you any better than Balak, the son of Zippor, king of Moab? Did he ever take up a cause against Israel or make war against them?
And Adoni-bezek fled, but they pursued after him; they caught him and cut off his thumb and big toes.
But the men wouldn't listen to him: so the man laid hold of his concubine, and brought her out to them; and they had sex with her, and abused her all night until the morning. When the day began to dawn, they let her go.
And Samuel said to the people, Fear not: *ye* have done all this wickedness; yet turn not aside from following Jehovah, and serve Jehovah with all your heart;
look to the dogs, look to the evil-workers, look to the concision;
And Jonathan said to him: To-morrow is the new moon, and thou wilt be missed:
And Jehovah smote Benjamin before Israel: and the children of Israel destroyed of the Benjamites that day twenty and five thousand and a hundred men; all these drew the sword.
And Samuel never saw Saul again till the day of his death; but Samuel was sorrowing for Saul: and it was no longer the Lord's pleasure for Saul to be king over Israel.
Only fear Yahweh and serve him faithfully with all of your heart. For consider what great things he hast done for you.
And Gaal the son of Ebed went out, and stood in the entrance of the gate of the city; and Abimelech rose up, and the people that were with him, from lying in wait for him.
And we will take ten men out of every hundred, through all the tribes of Israel, a hundred out of every thousand, a thousand out of every ten thousand, to get food for the people, so that they may give to Gibeah of Benjamin the right punishment for the act of shame they have done in Israel.
And when his servant saw that Saul was dead, he did the same, and was united with him in death.
When the Ammonites made war with Israel, the elders of Gilead went to bring Jephthah from the land of Tob.
Now Eli was very old; and he heard all that his sons did to all Israel, and how that they slept with the women who served at the door of the Tent of Meeting.
And the whole congregation sent some to speak to the children of Benjamin that were in the rock Rimmon, and to call peaceably unto them.
The people said to Samuel, "Who is he who said, 'Shall Saul reign over us?' Bring those men, that we may put them to death!"
So the Philistines were subdued, and they came no more into the border of Israel: and the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And Samuel came to Saul: and Saul said unto him, Blessed be thou of Jehovah: I have performed the commandment of Jehovah.
And they appoint for them the graven image of Micah, which he had made, all the days of the house of God being in Shiloh.
who shall transform our body of humiliation into conformity to his body of glory, according to the working of power which he hast even to subdue all things to himself.
He sent messengers throughout all Manasseh, and they were also called to follow him; and he sent messengers throughout Asher, Zebulun, and Naphtali, and they went up to meet them.
In those days there was no king in Israel; every man did what was right in his own eyes;
Therefore let us approach with confidence to the throne of grace, in order that we may receive lovingkindness and find favor to help in time of need.
And they took their bones and buried them in the wood of Jabes: and fasted seven days.
And Samuel said to Saul, Thou hast done arrogantly; thou hast not kept the commandment of Jehovah thy God, which he commanded thee: for now would Jehovah, have established thy kingdom upon Israel for ever.
and you have risen up against my father's house today, and have slain his sons, seventy persons, on one stone, and have made Abimelech, the son of his female servant, king over the men of Shechem, because he is your brother);
"This is the covenant that I will make with them; 'After those days,' says Jehovah, 'I will put my laws on their heart, I will also write them on their mind;'" then he says,
and not letting yourselves be intimidated in anything by your opponents, which is a sign of destruction to them, but of your salvation, and this from God,
And they sent the ark of God to Ekron. And it came to pass, when the ark of God came to Ekron, that the Ekronites cried out, saying, They have brought about the ark of the God of Israel to us, to kill us and our people.
Cast not away therefore your confidence, who hast great recompense.
And Saul sent for all the people to come to the fight, and go down to Keilah to make an attack on David and his men.
And Jonathan called David, and Jonathan showed him all those things. And Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was in his presence, as in time past.
But out of all the cities which were of their lot, they gathered themselves together into Gabaa, to aid them, and to fight against the whole people of Israel.
If ye will fear Jehovah, and serve him, and obey his voice, and not rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then shall both ye and also the king that reigneth over you continue following Jehovah your God;
Wherefore I also said, I will not drive them out from before you; but they shall be in your sides, and their gods shall be a snare unto you.
And the king took his throne, as at the other times, by the wall: and Jonathan was in front, and Abner was seated by Saul's side, but there was no one in David's seat.
And it cometh to pass when the sons of Israel have cried unto Jehovah, concerning Midian,
Then Elon the Zebulunite died and was buried in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun, one.
And the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul and told these words in the ears of the people. And all the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
And Jehovah sent Jerubbaal, and Bedan, and Jephthah, and Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies on every side, and ye dwelt safe.
From all these troops were seven hundred well-trained men who were left-handed; each one could sling with a stone at a hair and not miss.
Now when David returned, after be slew the Philistine, the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul, with timbrels of joy, and cornets.
Committing fornication with foreign gods, and adoring them. They quickly forsook the way, in which their fathers had walked. and hearing the commandments of Jehovah, they did all things contrary.
And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be unto thee; fear not: thou shalt not die.
and they say to him, `Keep silent, lay thy hand on thy mouth, and go with us, and be to us for a father and for a priest: is it better thy being a priest to the house of one man, or thy being priest to a tribe and to a family in Israel?'
They took the two princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb. They killed Oreb at Oreb's rock, and Zeeb they killed at Zeeb's wine press; and pursued Midian. Then they brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to Gideon beyond the Jordan.
And the Philistines fought against Israel: and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain on mount Gilboa.
And they cut off Saul's head, and stripped him of his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to publish it in the temples of their idols, and among their people.
Gideon said to God, "If you will save Israel by my hand, as you have spoken,
being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ, unto the glory and praise of God.
And the men of the station answer Jonathan, and the bearer of his weapons, and say, `Come up unto us, and we cause you to know something.' And Jonathan saith unto the bearer of his weapons, `Come up after me, for Jehovah hath given them into the hand of Israel.'
And as for you, do not make a covenant with the inhabitants of this land; break down their altars.' But you did not listen to my voice. Why would you do such a thing?
Speak, I pray you, in the ears of all the men of Shechem, Whether is better for you, either that all the sons of Jerubbaal, which are threescore and ten persons, reign over you, or that one reign over you? remember also that I am your bone and your flesh.
And the children of Dan sent of their family five men of their whole number, men of valor, from Zoreah and from Eshtaol, to spy out the land, and to examine it; and they said to them, Go, examine the land. And they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and lodged there.
And Jehovah hath done to him, as he spake by me: for Jehovah hath rent the kingdom out of thy hand, and given it to thy neighbor, even to David:
But Aod anxiously the shutting the doors of the parlour and locking them,
And I also have lent him to Jehovah: all the days that he lives, he is lent to Jehovah. And he worshipped even Jehovah, there.
Then you will have no cause for sorrow, and my lord's heart will not be troubled because you have taken life without cause and have yourself given punishment for your wrongs: and when Jehovah hast been good to you, then give a thought to your servant.
The mountains melted before the face of Jehovah, and Sinai before the face of Jehovah, the God of Israel.
But Jonathan heard not when his father charged the people with the oath; wherefore he put forth the end of the rod that was in his hand, and dipped it in a honeycomb, and put his hand to his mouth, and his eyes were enlightened.
And Jehovah said to Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, at which both the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle.
And Saul smote Amalec from Hevila, until thou comest to Sur, which is over against Egypt.
For who will hearken unto you in this matter? but as his portion is that goeth down to the battle, so shall his part be that tarry by the stuff: they shall part alike:
and there is a trembling in the camp, in the field, and among all the people, the station and the destroyers have trembled -- even they, and the earth shaketh, and it becometh a trembling of God.
And you shall look; and if it go up by the way of his own borders towards Bethsames, then he hath done us this great evil; but if not, we shall know that it is not his hand hath touched us, but it hath happened by chance.
But if they say, 'Come up to us,' then we will go up, for Yahweh hast given them into our hand, and this will be the sign for us."
For it was fitting that we should have such a high priest, holy, innocent; undefiled, separated from sinners, and made higher than the heavens;
And his wife saith to him, `If even Jehovah, were desirous to put us to death, He had not received from our hands burnt-offering and present, nor showed us all these things, nor as [at this] time caused us to hear like this.'
And they said, Behold, there is a feast of Jehovah from year to year in Shiloh, which is on the north side of Beth-el, toward the sun-rising of the highway that goes up from Beth-el to Shechem, and on the south of Lebonah.
and they find a man, an Egyptian, in the field, and take him unto David, and give to him bread, and he eateth, and they cause him to drink water,
Yet, to remain in the flesh is more needful for your sake.
and he asketh for him at Jehovah, and provision hath given to him, and the sword of Goliath the Philistine hath given to him.
And Saul hath not spoken anything on that day, for he said, `It an accident; he is not clean -- surely not clean.'
the new and living way which he hast dedicated for us through the veil, that is, his flesh,
So Eli said to Samuel "Go lie down. If he calls to you, then you must say, 'Speak Yahweh, because your servant is listening.'" So Samuel went and lay down in his place.
And there is a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the Danite, and his name Manoah, his wife barren, and hath not borne;
From there he went against the inhabitants of Debir. (The name of Debir beforetime that was Kiriath Sepher.)
And the men were very good to us, and we were not hurt, neither missed we anything, as long as we companied with them, when we were in the field.
And the man said to Eli, I am he that came out of the battle, and I have fled to-day out of the battle. And he said, What hast taken place, my son?
Now therefore go, and smite Amalec, and utterly destroy all that he hath; spare him not, nor covet anything that is his: but slay both man and woman, infant and suckling, ox and sheep, camel and ass.
So they sent for all the lords of the Philistines to come together there, and said, What are we to do with the ark of the God of Israel? And their answer was, Let the ark of the God of Israel be taken away to Gath. So they took the ark of the God of Israel away.
How shall we escape, if we refuse so great salvation; which at the first began to be spoken by Jehovah, and was confirmed unto us by them that heard him;
(for my father fought for you, and risked his life, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian:
And all the people greatly feared Jehovah and Samuel. And all the people said to Samuel: Pray for thy servants to Jehovah thy God, that we may not die, for we have added to all our sins this evil, to ask for a king.
Jesse said to David his son, "Now take for your brothers an ephah of this parched grain, and these ten loaves, and carry them quickly to the camp to your brothers;
And all the men of Israel who had hid themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim, when they heard that the Philistines fled, even they also followed hard after them in the battle.
And he giveth back the eleven hundred silverlings to his mother, and his mother saith, `I had certainly sanctified the silver to Jehovah, from my hand, for my son, to make a graven image, and a molten image; and now, I give it back to thee.'
Therefore even the first covenant hast not been dedicated without blood.
If he says, 'It is well;' your servant shall have peace: but if he is angry, then know that evil is determined by him.
Only fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth with all your heart: for consider how great things he hath done for you.
And his mother made him a little coat, which she brought to him on the appointed days, when she went up with her husband, to offer the solemn sacrifice.
And Zebul, prince of the city, heareth the words of Gaal son of Ebed, and his anger burneth,
For when Moses had spoken every precept to all the people according to the law, he took the blood of calves and of goats, with water, and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book, and all the people,
Then went he also to Ramah, and came to the great well that is in Sechu; and he asked and said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, Behold, at Naioth by Ramah.
For the law appoints men as high priests who have weakness, but the word of the oath which came after the law appoints a Son forever who hast been completed.
And now stand still, that I may contend with you before Jehovah of all the righteous acts of Jehovah which he did to you and to your fathers.
While Israel was living in Heshbon and itself daughter-towns and in Aroer and itself daughter-towns and in all the towns which are by the side of the of the Arnon, for three hundred years, why did you not get them back at that time?
But the Philistines took him, and put out his eyes, and brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with fetters of brass; and he did grind in the prison-house.
And he came unto the men of Succoth, and said, Behold Zebah and Zalmunna, with whom ye did upbraid me, saying, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna now in thy hand, that we should give bread unto thy men that are weary;
But ye, beloved, we are persuaded better things of you, and things that accompany salvation, though we thus speak.
And Hannah prayeth; and saith: `My heart hath exulted in Jehovah, My horn hath been high in Jehovah, My mouth hath been large over mine enemies, For I have rejoiced in Thy salvation.
So David asked him, "Will you take me down to this band of raiders?" He said, "Swear to me by God that you will not kill me and that you will not deliver me into my master's hand! then I will take you down to this band."
For to me to live is Christ and to die is gain:
And the children of Israel went up and wept before Jehovah until even, and learned of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go up again to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother? And Jehovah said, Go up against him.
When their hearts were merry they said, "Call for Samson, that he may entertain us." They called for Samson out of the prison; and he performed before them. They set him between the pillars;
David rose early in the morning and left the sheep with a keeper, and he took the provisions and went as Jesse had commanded him. He came to the encampment while the troops were going to the battle line, and they raised the war cry.
For he didn't subject the world to come, of which we speak, to angels.
And what more shall I say? For time would fail me to tell about Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, David, and Samuel and the prophets,
When Saul had returned from following the Philistines, he was told, "Behold, David is in the wilderness of En Gedi."
and now, lo, the king is walking habitually before you, and I have become aged and gray-headed, and my sons, lo, they with you, and I have walked habitually before you from my youth till this day.
And the others indeed were made many priests, because by reason of death they were not suffered to continue:
Now Heli was very old, and he heard all that his sons did to all Israel: and how they lay with the women that waited at the door of the Tent:
But the commanders of the Philistines were angry with him and they said to him, "Send the man back so that he might return to his place where you have assigned him! But he will not go down with us into the battle, so that he does not become an adversary to us in the battle. By what could this man make himself favorable to his lord? Is it not with the heads of these men?
for every one who is partaking of milk unskilled in the word of righteousness -- for he is an infant,
And Jonathan said unto David, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, when I have sounded my father about to-morrow any time, or the third day, and, behold, if there be good toward David, and I then send not unto thee, and show it thee;
Salute ye every one in Christ Jesus, there salute you the brethren with me;
And they said to Joas: Bring out thy son hither, that he may die: because he hath destroyed the altar of Baal, and hath cut down his Asherah.
that your glorying may abound in Christ Jesus through me by my presence again with you.
And the armed men of the force gave Jonathan and his servant their answer, saying, Come up here to us, and we will let you see something. Then Jonathan said to his servant, Come up after me: for Jehovah hast given them up into the hands of Israel.
If you will fear Yahweh, and serve him, and listen to his voice, and not be rebellious against what Yahweh says, and both you and the king who rules over you will follow after Yahweh your God, all will be well.
David spoke to Achimelech the Hethite, and Abisai the son of Sarvia the brother of Joab, speaking: Who will go down with me to Saul into the camp? And Abisai said: I will go with thee.
Then David said, You are not to do this, my brothers, after what Jehovah hast given us, who hast kept us safe and given up the band which came against us into our hands.
Then Doeg, the Edomite, who was by the side of the servants of Saul, in answer said, I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob, to Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub.
And she fastened it with the pin, and said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. And he awaked out of his sleep, and went away with the pin of the beam, and with the web.
And Samson said, Let me die with the Philistines. And he bowed himself with all his might; and the house fell upon the lords, and upon all the people that were therein. So the dead that he slew at his death were more than they that he slew in his life.
To whom also Abraham divided the tithes of all: who first indeed by interpretation, is king of righteousness; and then also king of Salem, that is, king of peace:
Now Jotham, on hearing of it, went to the top of Mount Gerizim, and crying out with a loud voice said to them, Give ear to me, you townsmen of Shechem, so that God may give ear to you.
Then Sisera gathered together all his chariots, nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from Harosheth-Goim to the torrent Kishon.
But Samuel ministered before Yahweh, being a child, clothed with a linen ephod.
Then said Samuel, Wherefore then dost thou ask of me, seeing Jehovah is departed from thee, and is become thine enemy?
But where there remission of these, [there is] no longer a sacrifice for sin.
Only, fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth, with all your heart; for see how many things he hast done for you.
When three companies blew on the trumpets and broke the jars, they held in their left hand the torches and in their right hand the trumpets for blowing, and they cried, "A sword for Yahweh and for Gideon!"
And it cometh to pass in those days, that the Philistines gather their camps for the war, to fight against Israel, and Achish saith unto David, `Thou dost certainly know that with me thou dost go out into the camp, thou and thy men.'
And they commanded the sons of Benjamin, saying, Go and lie in wait in the vineyards;
Then Saul said: Bring me the holocaust, and the peace-offerings. And he offered the holocaust.
And David fled from Naioth by Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan, What have I done? what is mine iniquity, and what is my sin before thy father, that he seeks patient?
Then ten thousand well-trained men from all Israel came out against Gibeah, and the battle became fierce; they did not know that disaster was about to close in on them.
Then Saul was moved to wrath against Jonathan, and he said to him, You son of an evil and uncontrolled woman, have I not seen how you have given your love to the son of Jesse, to your shame and the shame of your mother?
And Samuel said, As your sword hast made women without children, so now your mother will be without children among women. And Agag was cut up by Samuel, bone from bone, before Jehovah in Gilgal.
But now, at the end of these days, it hast come to us through his Son, to whom he hast given all things for a heritage, and through whom he made the order of the generations;
He said to his men, "Far be it from me in Yahweh, that I do this thing to my lord, to Yahweh's anointed one, by stretching out my hand against him? For he is the anointed one of Yahweh."
five lord ships of the Philistines, and all the Canaanite, and the Sidonians; and the Hivites that dwell on mount Lebanon; from mount Baal-Hermon unto the entrance of Hamath;
And the lad knew nothing: only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
But she answered: Give me a blessing, for thou hast given me a dry land: give me also a watery land. So Caleb gave her the upper and the nether watery ground.
And the watchmen of Saul, who were in Gabaa of Benjamin looked, and, behold, a multitude overthrown, and fleeing this way and that.
By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come.
So Yahweh said to Samuel, "Look, I am doing something in Israel which will cause the two ears of everyone who hears it to tingle.
His father-in-law, the young woman's father, urged him to stay with him three days; and they ate and drank, and they spent the night there.
And David said to Abner, Are you not a man of war? is there any other like you in Israel? why then have you not kept watch over your lord the king? for one of the people came in to put the king your lord to death.
But Ehud had gathered away while they were waiting and had gone past the stone images and got away to Seirah.
So Samuel lay down until morning; then he opened the doors of the house of Yahweh, but Samuel was afraid of telling the vision to Eli.
And the Amorites winepress the sons of Dan to the mountain, for they have not suffered them to go down to the valley;
And now this blessing which thy bondmaid hast brought to my lord, let it be given to the young men that follow my lord.
As for what you and I were talking of, Jehovah is between you and me for ever.
And Saul answered and said, Am not I a Benjaminite, of the smallest of the tribes of Israel, and my family the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? and why dost thou speak such words to me?
So Saul said to his servants, "Search for me a woman who is a medium so that I may go to her and inquire of her." His servants said to him, "Look there is a woman who is a medium in Endor."
But if they say this, 'Come up to us!' then we will go up; for Yahweh hast delivered them into our hand. This shall be the sign to us."
And Saul saith unto David, `Thou art not able to go unto this Philistine, to fight with him, for a youth thou , and he a man of war from his youth.'
[It was] necessary then that the figurative representations of the things in the heavens should be purified with these: but the heavenly things themselves with sacrifices better than these.
Sisera gathered together all his chariots, even nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people who were with him, from Harosheth of the Gentiles, to the river Kishon.
all things Thou didst put in subjection under his feet,' for in the subjecting to him the all things, nothing did He leave to him unsubjected, and now not yet do we see the all things subjected to him,
the word of life holding forth, for rejoicing to me in regard to a day of Christ, that not in vain did I run, nor in vain did I labor,
The children of Israel cried to Yahweh, saying, "We have sinned against you, even because we have forsaken our God, and have served the Baals."
if by any means I may attain to the resurrection from the dead.
Yet they had a file for the mattocks, and for the coulters, and for the forks, and for the axes, and to sharpen the goads.
and I have blown with a trumpet -- I and all who with me, and ye have blown with trumpets, even ye, round about all the camp, and have said, For even Jehovah, and for Gideon.'
And Samuel said: Bring hitherto me Agag the king of Amalec. And Agag was presented to him very fat, and trembling. And Agag said: Doth bitter death separate in this manner?
Jephthah sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon, saying, "What have you to do with me, that you have come to me to fight against my land?"
(Now her rival wife would provoke her severely in order to upset her because Yahweh had closed her womb.)
And Samuel speaketh unto the people the right of the kingdom, and writeth in a book, and placeth before Jehovah; and Samuel sendeth all the people away, each to his house.
In order to put Israel to the test, and see if they will keep the way of Jehovah, walking in it as their fathers did, or not.
The name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam, the daughter of Ahimaaz; the captain of his army was Abner, the son of Ner, brother of Saul's father.
And see and know of all the hiding-places where he hideth himself, and ye have turned back unto me prepared, and I have gone with you, and it hath been if he is in the land, that I have searched him out through all the thousands of Judah.'
But I much more beseech to do this, that I may the more quickly be restored to you.
God did so that night; for it was dry on the fleece only, and there was dew on all the ground.
For ye know that afterward, when he would have inherited the blessing, he was rejected: for he found no place of repentance, though he sought it anxiously with tears.
And Abimelech cometh unto the tower, and fighteth against it, and draweth nigh unto the opening of the tower to burn it with fire,
And behold, I will send the lad, [saying,] Go, find the arrows; If I expressly say to the lad, Behold, the arrows are on this side of thee, take them; then come, for there is peace for thee, and it is nothing; Jehovah liveth.
And whenever Jehovah gave them judges, then Jehovah was with the judge, and was their saviour from the hands of their haters all the days of the judge; for Jehovah was moved by their cries of grief because of those who were cruel to them.
And the children of Israel departed thence at that time, every man to his tribe and to his family, and they went out from thence every man to his inheritance.
Yahweh said to Gideon, "The people who are with you are too many for me to give the Midianites into their hand, lest Israel brag against me, saying, 'My own hand hast saved me.'
And he said, This will be the manner of the king that shall reign over you: he will take your sons, and appoint them for himself, on his chariot and among his horsemen, and they shall run before his chariots;
And from there he went against the inhabitants of Debir; now the name of Debir beforetime was Kirjath-sepher.
Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, "If you bring me home again to fight with the children of Ammon, and Yahweh delivers them before me, will I be your head?"
And Saul said, Draw ye near hither, all the heads of the people; and know and see wherein this sin hast been this day.
The river Kishion took them violently away, stopping their flight, the river Kishon. Give praise, O my soul, to the strength of Jehovah!
And I will raise me up a faithful priest, that shall do according to that which is in my heart and in my mind; and I will build him a sure house; and he shall walk before mine anointed for ever.
By faith, the walls of Jericho fell down, after they had been encircled for seven days.
And Delilah saith unto Samson, `Hitherto thou hast played upon me, and dost speak unto me lies; declare to me wherewith thou art bound.' And he saith unto her, `If thou weavest the seven locks of my head with the web.'
And he ran to Eli and said, "Here I am, because you called me." But he said, "I did not call you. Go back and lie down." So he went and lay down.
And Achish said, "Against whom have you raided today?" David said, "Against the Negev of Judah and against the Negev of the Jerahmeelites and against the Negev of the Kenites."
And it cometh to pass, all his acquaintance heretofore, see, and lo, with prophets he hath prophesied, and the people say one to another, `What this hath happened to the son of Kish? is Saul also among the prophets?'
And when thou hast stayed three days, then thou shalt go down quickly, and come to the place where thou didst hide thyself when the business was in hand, and shalt remain by the stone Ezel.
But those out of contention, announce the Christ, not purely, supposing to arouse tribulation for my bonds.
Brothers, I do not consider myself to have laid hold of it. But I do one thing, forgetting the things behind and straining toward the things ahead,
And he said to the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, *I* brought up Israel out of Egypt, and delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all the kingdoms that oppressed you;
When he says above, "Sacrifices and offerings and whole burnt-offerings and offerings for sin you did not want, nor did you delight in," which are offered according to the law,
that no one be a sexually immoral or totally worldly person like Esau, who for one meal traded his own birthright.
Who is made, not after the law of a carnal commandment, but after the power of an endless life.
And the six hundred armed men of the Danites took their places by the doorway.
`At this time tomorrow, I send unto thee a man out of the land of Benjamin -- and thou hast anointed him for leader over My people Israel, and he hath saved My people out of the hand of the Philistines; for I have seen My people, for itself cry hath come in unto Me.'
Hear, ye kings; give ear, ye princes, I, I, will sing to Jehovah; I will hymn to even Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And Gaal spoke again and said, "Look, people are coming down from Tabbur-erez, and one division is coming from With Elon-meonenim."
"When you saw that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against you, you said to me, 'No, but a king shall reign over us;' when Yahweh your God was your king.
Gideon had seventy sons, the offspring of his body; for he had a number of wives.
But if it is to live in the flesh, this is fruitful work for me, and which I will prefer I do not know.
Then Saul went Samuel in the gateway, and said, "Please tell me where the seer's house is."
And he said to the men of Penuel, saying, "When I return securely, I will tear down this tower."
for men indeed do swear by the greater, and an end of all controversy to them for confirmation the oath,
But if ye cannot declare it me, then shall ye give me thirty sheets and thirty change of garments. And they said unto him, Put forth thy riddle, that we may hear it.
Then firing the sticks he let foxes loose among the uncut grain of the Philistines, and all the corded stems as well as the living grain and the vine-gardens and the olives went up in of flame.
but bringing forth thorns and briars, it is found worthless and nigh to a curse, whose end to be burned.
And the children of Benjamin did so, and took wives, according to their number, of them that danced, whom they caught; and they went and returned to their inheritance, and built the cities, and dwelt in them.
five princes of the Philistines, and all the Canaanite, and the Zidonian, and the Hivite inhabiting mount Lebanon, from mount Baal-Hermon unto the entrance of Hamath;
Go now and put Amalek to the sword, putting to the curse all they have, without lovingkindness; put to death every man and woman, every child and baby at the breast, every ox and sheep, camel and ass.
So David's young men came and they spoke all these words to Nabal in the name of David. Then they waited.
But I have all things in full supply and abound; I am full, having received of Epaphroditus the things from you, an odor of sweet savor, an acceptable sacrifice, agreeable to God.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came on him with power, and, unarmed as he was, casting the lion in two as one might do to a young goat, he put him to death; (but he said nothing to his father and mother of what he had done.)
Arise, arise, O Debbora, arise, arise, and utter a canticle. Arise, Barac, and take hold of thy captives, O son of Abinoem.
I delivered you from the hand of Egypt and from the hand of all your oppressors, and drove them out from before you; and I gave you their land.
And Israel set liers-in-wait against Gibeah, round about.
Now the house was full of men and women, and all the princes of the Philistines were there. Moreover about three thousand persons of both sexes from the roof and the higher part of the house, were beholding Samson's play.
Then David went over to the other side, and took his place on the top of the mountain some distance away, with a great space between them;
For every high priest taken from among men is appointed on behalf of people in the things relating to God, in order that he can offer both gifts and sacrifices on behalf of sins,
And the priest answereth David, and saith, `There is no common bread under my hand, but there is holy bread; if the youths have been kept only from women.'
And the boy Samuel ministered to even Jehovah, before Eli. And the word of Jehovah was rare in those days; a vision was not frequent.
And to them that were in Hebron, and to all the places where David himself and his men were wont to haunt.
And Samuel saw Saul no more till the day of his death: nevertheless Samuel mourned for Saul, because Jehovah repented that he had made him king over Israel.
And Gideon cometh in, and lo, a man is recounting to his companion a dream, and saith, `Lo, a dream I have dreamed; and, lo, a cake of barley-bread is turning itself over into the camp of Midian, and it cometh in unto the tent, and smiteth it, and it falleth, and turneth it upwards, and the tent hath fallen.'
In that day I establish unto Eli all that I have spoken unto his house, beginning and completing;
But unto Hannah he gave a worthy portion; for he loved Hannah: but Jehovah had shut up her womb.
who hast not day by day need, as the high priests, first to offer up sacrifices for his own sins, then those of the people; for this he did once for all having offered up himself.
And Achish giveth to him in that day Ziklag, therefore hath Ziklag been to the kings of Judah till this day.
wherefore it did behove him in all things to be made like to the brethren, that he might become a kind and stedfast chief-priest in the things with God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people,
And no man who is not given authority by God, as Aaron was, takes this honor for himself.
David said, "As Yahweh lives, Yahweh will strike him; or his day shall come to die; or he shall go down into battle and perish.
Moses indeed was faithful in all his house as a servant, for a testimony of those things which were afterward to be spoken,
He chose for himself three thousand from Israel. Two thousand of these were with Saul at Micmash in the hill-country of Beth-el, and a thousand were with Jonathan at Gibeah in Benjamin. He sent away the rest of the people, each to his tent.
And when he had said thus he fled, and went into Bera: and dwelt there for fear of Abimelech his brother.
Now therefore behold the king whom ye have chosen, and whom ye have desired! and, behold, Jehovah hath set a king over you.
And as a vesture shalt thou change them, and they shall be changed: but thou art the selfsame, and thy years shall not fail.
So David hid himself in the field: and when the new moon was come, the king sat him down to eat food.
Again Yahweh called Samuel a third time, so he bought up and went to Eli and said, "Here I am, because you called me." Then Eli realized that Yahweh was calling the boy.
He had thirty sons who rode on thirty donkey colts, and they had thirty cities, which are called Havvoth Jair to this day, which are in the land of Gilead.
And being seen in form as a man, he took the lowest place, and let himself be put to death, even the death of the cross.
And when the men of Israel who were on the other side of the valley and those who were beyond the the Jordan saw that the men of Israel had fled and that Saul and his sons were dead, they abandoned the towns and fled. Thus the Philistines came and lived in them.
Samuel died; and all Israel gathered themselves together, and mourned for him, and buried him at his house at Ramah. Then David arose, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
and David hath smitten the land, and doth not keep alive man and woman, and hath taken sheep and oxen, and asses, and camels, and garments, and turneth back, and cometh in unto Achish.
"Therefore Yahweh, the God of Israel, says, 'I said indeed that your house, and the house of your father, should walk before me forever.' But now Yahweh says, 'Far be it from me; for those who honor me I will honor, and those who despise me will be easily esteemed.
And the Philistines go up, and encamp in Judah, and are spread out in Lehi,
The Holy Spirit testifying by this that the way into the holy place had not at that time been made open, while the first Tent was still in being;
But this priest, because his life goes on for ever, is unchanging.
You had no joy in burned offerings or in offerings for sin.
After a long time, again naming a certain day, he says in David, To-day as he had said before), To-day if you will let his voice come to your ears, be not hard of heart,
And when he had restored the eleven hundred shekels of silver to his mother, his mother said, I had wholly dedicated the silver unto Jehovah from my hand for my son, to make a graven image and a molten image; now therefore I will restore it unto thee.
Then Barak sent for Zebulun and Naphtali to come to Kedesh; and ten thousand men went up after him, and Deborah went up with him.
Speak of me before Jehovah, and before his anointed, whether I have taken any man's ox, or ass: If I wronged any man, if I have oppressed any man, if I have taken a bribe at any man's hand: and I will despise it this day, and will restore it to you.
And the sons of Israel have dwelt in the midst of the Canaanite, the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite,
and having been found in figure as a man, humbled himself, becoming obedient even unto death, and [that the] death of cross.
But all Israel and Judah loved David; for he went out and came in before them.
And he went up, and told his father and his mother, and said, I have seen a woman in Timnathah of the daughters of the Philistines; and now take her for me as wife.
And the people refuse to hearken to the voice of Samuel, and say, `Nay, but a king is over us,
And that first slaughter which Jonathan and his armour-bearer wrought was about twenty men, as it were on the half-furrow of an acre of land.
Wherefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but much more now in my absence,) with fear and trembling work out your salvation.
And they were grievously oppressed by them. And they made themselves caves and eaves in the mountains, and strongholds to to gainsay.
And it came to pass as she came, that she urged him to ask of her father the field; and she sprang down from the ass. And Caleb said to her, What wouldest thou?
And he said to him, "We are crossing over from Beth-lehem in Judah up to the remote areas of the hill-country of Ephraim, where I am from. I went to Beth-lehem in Judah, but now I am going to Yahweh's house, but no one took me in to spend the night.
The Philistines laid hold on him, and put out his eyes; and they brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with fetters of brass; and he ground at the mill in the prison.
So that he is fully able to be the saviour of all who come to God through him, because he is ever living to make prayer to God for them.
And now art thou indeed better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? did he ever strive with Israel? did he ever fight against them?
And David saith unto the Philistine, `Thou art coming unto me with sword, and with spear, and with shield, and I am coming unto thee in the name of Jehovah of Hosts, God of the ranks of Israel, which thou hast reproached.
So David sent ten young men, and David said to the young men, "Go up to Carmel and go to Nabal; you will salute him in my name.
And the children of Israel learned of even Jehovah, (and the ark of the covenant of God was there in those days,
They were stoned. They were sawn apart. They were tempted. They were slain with the sword. They went around in sheep skins and in goat skins; being destitute, afflicted, ill-treated
And Samuel said: Gather all Israel to Masphath, that I may pray to Jehovah for you.
The men of the garrison answered Jonathan and his armor bearer, and said, "Come up to us, and we will show you something!" Jonathan said to his armor bearer, "Come up after me; for Yahweh hast delivered them into the hand of Israel."
And so, when he had been waiting calmly for a long time, God's word to him was put into effect.
And the ark of God was taken; and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were slain.
Then the Philistines said, Who hast done this? And they said, Samson, the son-in-law of the Timnite, because he took his wife and gave her to his friend. So the Philistines came up and had her and her father's house burned.
And when the people came into the forest, behold the honey dropped, but no man put his hand to his mouth. For the people feared oath.
Now in those days the Philistines got their forces together to make war on Israel. And Achish said to David, Certainly you and your men are to go out with me to the fight.
Yet you have forsaken me, and served other gods. Therefore I will save you no more.
And going out from thence to fight against Benjamin, began to assault the city.
who came not according to the law of a fleshly command, but according to the power of an endless life,
So you will cry out on that day because of your king whom you have chosen for yourselves, but Yahweh will not answer you on that day!"
And David layeth these words in his heart, and is exceedingly afraid of the face of Achish king of Gath,
So let Jehovah be judge, and give a decision between me and you and see and give support to my cause, and keep me from falling into your hands.
and the men of Israel go out to battle with Benjamin, and the men of Israel set themselves in array with them, battle against Gibeah,
And these the golden emerods which the Philistines have sent back -- a guilt-offering to Jehovah: for Ashdod, one, for Azzah one, for Ashkelon one, for Gath one, for Ekron one;
Then the Philistine said, "I hereby defy the battle lines of Israel today! Give me a man so that we may fight each other!"
David had also taken Ahinoam of Jizreel; and they became, even both of them, his wives.
And the Philistine said to David: Am I a dog, that thou comest to me with a staff? And the Philistine cursed David by his gods.
And she riseth and boweth herself -- face to the earth -- and saith, `Lo, thy handmaid for a maid-servant to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.'
being only (with things and drinks and various washings) fleshly ordinances, imposed until a time of reformation.
And it shall come to pass every one that is left of thy house shall come to crouch to him for a small piece of silver and for a cake of bread, and shall say, Put me, I pray thee, into one of the priestly offices, that I may eat a morsel of bread.
And now art thou anything better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? did he ever strive against Israel, or did he ever fight against them,
Between her feet he sank, he fell, he lay. Between her feet he sank down, he fell, Where he sank down, there he felldead.
And in all my prayers for you all, making my request with joy,
And Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him, and did let none of his words fall to the ground.
And now behold, the king whom ye have chosen, whom ye have asked for! and behold, even Jehovah, hast set a king over you.
with reference to whom it was said, "In Isaac your descendants will be named,"
And whenever Israel became strong, they put the Canaanites to forced work, without driving them out completely.
In the morning, when the wine had gone out of Nabal, his wife told him these things, and his heart died within him, and he became as a stone.
And Saul said to his servants, Get me now a man that can play well, and bring him to me.
And when Jehovah raised them up judges, in their days he was moved to mercy, and heard the groanings of the afflicted, and delivered them from the slaughter of the oppressors.
Now the Philistines were fighting against Israel, and the men of Israel fled before the Philistines, and they fell slain on Mount Gilboa.
And David left his carriage in the hand of the keeper of the carriage, and ran into the army, and came and saluted his brethren.
And the cities that the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron even to Gath; and their territory did Israel deliver out of the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorite.
He had a helmet of brass on his head, and he wore a coat of mail; and the weight of the coat was five thousand shekels of brass.
The children of Israel returned from chasing after the Philistines and they plundered their camp.
And it came to pass, when he remembered the ark of God, that he fell from off the seat backward by the side of the gate, and his neck broke, and he died; for the man was old, and heavy. And he had judged Israel forty years.
Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is; but exhorting one another: and so much the more, as ye see the day approaching.
Neither showed they kindness to the house of Jerubbaal, namely, Gideon, according to all the goodness which he had showed unto Israel.
And his mother's brethren spoke of him in the ears of all the citizens of Shechem all these words. And their heart inclined after Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
And he said, Ye have taken away my gods which I made, and the priest, and ye are gone away: and what have I more? and what is this that ye say unto me, What aileth thee?
Sisera fled on foot to the tent of Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite, because there was peace between Jabin king of Hazor and the house of Heber the Kenite.
In those days, the Philistines gathered their hosts together for warfare, to fight with Israel. Achish said to David, "Know assuredly that you will go out with me in the army, you and your men."
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim, and Ashtaroth, and the gods of Syria, and the gods of Sidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines, and forsook Jehovah, and served not him.
Israel sent messengers to Sihon king of the Amorites, king of Heshbon; and Israel said to him, 'Please let us cross through your land to our country.'
And her father said, I verily thought that thou hadst utterly hated her; therefore I gave her to thy friend: is not her younger sister fairer than she be? take her, I pray thee, instead of her.
David laid up these words in his heart, and was very afraid of Achish the king of Gath.
So Israel put men secretly all round Gibeah to make a surprise attack on it.
And Jephte the Galaadite judged Israel six years: and he died, and was buried in his city of Galaad.
and he hath two wives, the name of the one Hannah, and the name of the second Peninnah, and Peninnah hath children, and Hannah hath no children.
but in those is a remembrance of sins every year,
You must watch; if it goes up by the way of itself territory to Beth Shemesh, he hast caused this great disaster to come on us. But if not, then we will know his hand hast not struck us; it was by chance that this happened to us.
And all the trees say unto the bramble, Come thou, reign over us.
And she vowed a vow, and said, O Jehovah of hosts, if thou wilt indeed look on the affliction of thy handmaid, and remember me, and not forget thy handmaid, but wilt give unto thy handmaid a man child, then I will give him unto Jehovah all the days of his life and there shall no razor come upon his head.
Therefore, even as the Holy Spirit says, "Today if you will hear his voice,
And therefore he aught, as for the people, so also for himself, to offer for sins.
And straightway he sounded the trumpet in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel went down with him, he himself going in the front.
And God repaid the evil, that Abimelech had done against his father, killing his seventy brethren.
And unto which of the messengers said He ever, `Sit at My right hand, till I may make thine enemies thy footstool?'
When it was the fourth day, they said to Samson's wife, "Entice your husband and tell us the riddle, or we will burn you and your father's house with fire. Have you invited us to rob us?"
And afterwards they went down and fought against the Chanaanite, who dwelt in the hill-country, and in the South, and in the plains.
that all of you have conspired against me, and there is none that informs me when my son hast made [a covenant] with the son of Jesse; and there is none of you that is sorry for me, or informs me that my son hast stirred up my servant as a lier-in-wait against me, as at this day?
And the king of the Bene-Ammon saith unto the messengers of Jephthah, `Because Israel took my land in his coming up out of Egypt, from of the Arnon, and unto the Jabbok, and unto the Jordan; and now, restore them in peace.'
And Saul took for himself three thousand men of Israel, of whom he kept two thousand with him in Michmash and in the mountain of Beth-el, and a thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah in the land of Benjamin: the rest of the people he sent back to their tents.
It repenteth me that I have made Saul king: for he hath forsaken me, and hath not executed my commandments. And Samuel was grieved, and he cried unto Jehovah all night.
And he said to her, Up, and let us go; but no one answered. And he took her upon the ass; and the man rose up, and went to his place.
Whose voice was the cause of the shaking of the earth; but now he hast made an oath, saying, There will be still one more earthquake; not only of the earth, but of heaven.
Do the possessors of Keilah shut me up into his hand? doth Saul come down as Thy servant hath heard? Jehovah, the God of Israel, Declare, I pray Thee, to Thy servant.' And Jehovah saith, `He doth come down.'
And even Jehovah, hast done for himself as he spoke by me; and even Jehovah, hast rent the kingdom out of thy hand, and given it to thy neighbor, to David.
And as to the matter which thou and I have spoken of, behold, even Jehovah, is between me and thee for ever.
When all the lords of the tower of Shechem heard, they went to the vault of the temple of El-Berith.
So the children of Dan sent five men from among their number, valiant men, from Zorah and from Eshtaol, to take a look at the land and make a search through it; and they said to them, Go and make a search through the land; and they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, where they made a stop for the night.
For it came to pass, when the flame went up toward heaven from off the altar, that the angel of Jehovah went in the flame of the altar. And Manoah and his wife looked on it, and fell on their faces to the ground.
Samuel said to him, "Yahweh hast torn the kingdom of Israel from you today, and hast given it to a neighbor of yours who is better than you.
So he took him down, and there they were, spread out over the surface of all the land, eating and drinking and dancing because of all of the abundant plunder which they had taken from the land of the Philistines and from the land of Judah.
Having therefore a great high priest who hast passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast the confession.
And David said to him: Canst thou bring me to this company? And he said: Swear to me by God, that thou wilt not kill me, nor deliver me into the hands of my master, and I will bring thee to this company. And David swore to him.
And David saw that Saul had come out to seek his life; and David was in the wilderness of Ziph in a wood.
And the children of Israel cried to Jehovah, saying, We have sinned against thee, both because we have forsaken our God, and also served the Baals.
(Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented him, and they had buried him in Ramah, even in his own city. And Saul had put away the necromancers and the soothsayers out of the land.)
that your rejoicing may be more abundant in Jesus Christ for me by my coming to you again.
your flock he doth tithe, and ye are to him for servants.
And he said to them, even Jehovah, is witness against you, and his anointed is witness this day, that ye have not found aught in my hand! And [the people] said, [He is] witness!
So Jonathan informed David, saying, "My father Saul is proving to kill you; now please take care! In the morning you should stay in the hiding-place and conceal yourself.
extinguished the effectiveness of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, were made strong from weakness, became mighty in battle, put to flight enemy battle lines.
But now Christ hast come as the high priest of the good things of the future, through this greater and better Tent, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this world,
And Saul saith unto David, `Lo, my elder daughter Merab -- her I give to thee for a wife; only, be to me for a son of valor, and fight the battles of Jehovah;' and Saul said, `Let not my hand be on him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him.'
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel; and he said, Because this nation hath transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and hath not hearkened unto my voice,
Because you did not do what Jehovah said, and did not give effect to his burning wrath against Amalek. So Jehovah hast done this thing to you today.
After the death of Joshua, the children of Israel asked of Yahweh, saying, "Who should go up for us first against the Canaanite, to fight against them?"
For consider him that endured such contradiction of sinners against himself, lest ye be wearied and faint in your minds.
He said to the men of Succoth, "Please give loaves of bread to the people who follow me; for they are faint, and I am pursuing after Zebah and Zalmunna, the kings of Midian."
After that thou shalt come to the hill of God, where is the garrison of the Philistines: and it shall come to pass, when thou art come thither to the city, that thou shalt meet a company of prophets coming down from the high place with a psaltery, and a tabret and a the pipe, and a harp, before them; and they shall prophesy.
So Saul commanded the people, and numbered them as lambs: two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand of the men of Juda.
And Samuel said to the cook, Give me that part which I gave you orders to keep by you.
Then, indeed, fathers of our flesh we have had, chastising , and we were reverencing ; shall we not much rather be in subjection to the Father of the spirits, and live?
because on account of the work of Christ he came near to the point of death, risking his life in order that he might make up for your inability to serve me.
But no chastening at the time seems to be of joy, but of grief; but afterwards yields peaceful fruit of righteousness to those exercised by it.
is it not wheat-harvest to-day? I call unto Jehovah, and He doth give voices and rain; and know ye and see that your evil is great which ye have done in the eyes of Jehovah, to ask for you a king.'
The former indeed had also justifications of divine service, and a worldly sanctuary.
And Samuel kept where he was, not moving till the time came for opening the doors of the house of God in the morning. And fear kept him from giving Eli account of his vision.
Now the spirit of Jehovah had gone from Saul, and an evil spirit from Jehovah was troubling him.
Jonathan stripped off the robe that he was wearing and gave it to David, along with his fighting attire, and even his sword, his bow, and his belt.
And the thing displeased Samuel, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed to Jehovah.
And she called the child Ichabod, speaking: The glory is gone from Israel, because the ark of God was taken, and for her father-in-law, and her husband:
Why do you harden your hearts Egypt and Pharao hardened their hearts? did not he, after he was struck, then let them go, and they departed?
For you have knowledge that even long after, when he was seeking the blessing for his heritage, he was turned away, though he made his request frequently and with weeping, because the past might not be changed.
And he taketh it down on to his hands, and goeth on, going and eating; and he goeth unto his father, and unto his mother, and giveth to them, and they eat, and he hath not declared to them that from the body of the lion he took down the honey.
Let our lord give orders, and thy servants who are before thee will seek out a man skillful in playing on the harp, that, when the evil spirit from Jehovah is upon thee, he may play with his hand, and thou mayest bear it more easily.
So also Christ was offered once to exhaust the sins of many; the second time he shall appear without sin to them that expect him unto salvation.
and the sons of Benjamin come out from Gibeah, and destroy in Israel on that day two and twenty thousand men -- to the earth.
At her feet he bowed down, he fell, he lay. At her feet he bowed down, he fell. Where he bowed down, there he fell down dead.
And the priest saith, `The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom thou didst smite in the valley of Elah, lo, it is wrapt in a garment behind the ephod, if it thou dost take to thyself, take; for there is no other save it in this .' And David saith, `There is none like it -- give it to me.'
She said, "Let your servant find favor in your sight." So the woman went away, and ate; and her facial expression wasn't sad any more.
He had forty sons and thirty grandsons that rode on seventy male donkeys. He judged Israel for eight years.
So David went away from there and took cover in a strong place at Adullam; and his brothers and all his father's people, hearing of it, went down to him there.
And Samson's wife was to his companion, whom he had made his friend.
So all Israel went down to the Philistines, each to have his plowshare, his mattock, his axe, and his iron plowshare sharpened.
And the Spirit of Jehovah began to move him at times in the camp of Dan between Zorah and Eshtaol.
He said, "They were my brothers, the sons of my mother. As Yahweh lives, if you had saved them alive, I would not kill you."
And when thou shalt depart from thence, and go farther on, and shalt come to the oak of Thabor, there shall meet thee three men ascent to God to Beth-el, one carrying three kids, and another three loaves of bread, and another carrying a bottle of wine.
But I will raise up for myself a reliable priest; he will do just according to what is in my heart and in my soul. I will build for him a everlasting house and he will walk continually before my anointed one forever.
So he brought him into his house, and gave the donkeys fodder. Then they washed their feet, and ate and drank.
Now the men of Israel had taken an oath in Mizpah, saying, Not one of us will give his daughter as a wife to Benjamin.
But you are come to mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to the company of many thousands of angels,
And they slaughtered the bullock, and brought the boy to Eli.
Of whom we have much to say which it is hard to make light; because you are slow of hearing.
God, who, at sundry times and in divers manners, spoke in time past to the fathers by the prophets, last of all,
Saul spoke to Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that they should kill David. But Jonathan, Saul's son, greatly delighted in David.
Now the children of Judah had fought against Jerusalem, and had taken it, and smitten it with the edge of the sword, and set the city on fire.
When Saul learned of Yahweh, Yahweh didn't answer him by dreams, by Urim, or by prophets.
And the Philistines hear the noise of the shouting, and say, `What the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews?' and they perceive that the ark of Jehovah hath come in unto the camp.
Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered;
And you have forgotten the consolation, that speaketh to you, as unto children, speaking: My son, refuse not the discipline of Jehovah; neither be thou wearied Whilst thou art rebuked by him.
and he with an oath through Him who is saying unto him, `The Lord sware, and will not repent: Thou a priest -- to the age, according to the ordinance of Melchisedek;')
And it came to pass, when their hearts were merry that they said, Call for Samson, that he may make us sport. And they called for Samson out of the prison house; and he made them sport: and they set him between the pillars.
And the children of Benjamin said, They are smitten down before us, as at the first. And the children of Israel said, Let us flee, that we may draw them from the city to the highways.
Which stood only in things and drinks, and divers washings, and carnal ordinances, imposed on them until the time of reformation.
And let not your lovingkindness ever be cut off from my family, even when Jehovah hast sent destruction on all David's haters, cutting them off from the face of the earth.
And David subdueth his men by words, and hath not permitted them to rise against Saul; and Saul hath risen from the cave, and goeth on the way;
and he who was not reckoned by genealogy of them, received tithes from Abraham, and him having the promises he hath blessed,
So Saul sent him away, and made him a captain over a thousand; and he went about his business before the people.
And Samuel said, Has even Jehovah, delight in burnt-offerings and sacrifices, As in Hearkening to the voice of Jehovah? Behold, obedience is better than sacrifice, Attention than the fat of rams.
and of perfect men is the strong food, who because of the use are having the senses exercised, unto the discernment both of good and evil.
And they say, `A possession of an escaped party to Benjamin, and a tribe is not blotted out from Israel;
For if we sin wilfully after that we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins,
To-morrow about this time I will send thee a man out of the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him to be prince over my people Israel, that he may save my people out of the hand of the Philistines: for I have looked upon my people, because their cry is come unto me.
for I know that this will turn out to me for deliverance through your prayer and the help of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
And Saul said: Blessed be ye of Jehovah, for you have pitied my case.
So Jehovah visited Hannah, and she conceived, and bore three sons and two daughters. And the boy Samuel grew before Jehovah.
Wherefore also Jesus, that he might sanctify the people by his own blood, suffered without the gate:
always in every prayer of mine for you all making request with joy,
Whose end is destruction, whose god is the stomach, and whose glory is in their shame, whose minds are fixed on the things of the earth.
And they let the Philistine force see the two of them: and the Philistines said, Look! the Hebrews are coming out of the clefts where they have taken cover.
The children of Israel again did that which was evil in Yahweh's sight, and Yahweh strengthened Eglon the king of Moab against Israel, because they had done that which was evil in Yahweh's sight.
When Jacob had come into Egypt, and your fathers cried to Jehovah, then Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, and they brought your fathers forth out of Egypt, and made them dwell in this place.
And Saul heareth that David hath become known, and the men who with him, and Saul is abiding in Gibeah, under the Asherah in Ramah, and his spear in his hand, and all his servants standing by him.
The children of Israel arose, went up to Beth-el, and asked counsel of God. They asked, "Who shall go up for us first to battle against the children of Benjamin?" Yahweh said, "Judah first."
And when the men of Israel across the valley and on the other side of the Jordan saw that the army of Israel was in flight and that Saul and his sons were dead, they came out of their towns and went in flight; and the Philistines came and took them for themselves.
And the people came into the camp; and the elders of Israel said, Why hast even Jehovah, smitten us to-day before the Philistines? Let us fetch ourselves the ark of the covenant of Jehovah out of Shiloh, that it may come among us, and save us out of the hand of our adversaries.
Remember them that are in hordes, as if you were bound with them; and them that labor, as being yourselves also in the body.
but Christ was faithful as a son over his house, whose house we are, if we hold fast to our confidence and the hope we can be proud of.
In the same way God, because he wanted to show even more to the heirs of the promise the unchangeableness of his resolve, guaranteed it with an oath,
But in them there is made a commemoration of sins every year.
and David dwelleth with Achish in Gath, he and his men, each one with his household, David and his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail wife of Nabal the Carmelitess.
Then David said to Jonathan, "Who will tell me if perchance your father answers you roughly?"
Wherefore I would not destroy them from before your face: that you may have enemies, and their gods may be your ruin.
He said, "This will be the way of the king who shall reign over you: he will take your sons, and appoint them as his servants, for his chariots, and to be his horsemen, and they will run before his chariots.
And they told Saul that the people had sinned against Jehovah, eating with the blood. And he said: You have transgressed: roll here to me now a great stone.
And a man thence answereth and saith, `And who their father?' therefore it hath been for a simile, `Is Saul also among the prophets?'
We may well go in fear of falling into the hands of the living God.
Jehovah, in Thy going forth out of Seir, In Thy stepping out of the field of Edom, Earth trembled, also the heavens dropped, Also thick clouds dropped water.
And Gaal said again, See! people are coming down from the middle of the land, and one band is coming by way of the oak-tree of the Seers.
And then on the next day, the second day of the new moon, that David's place was empty. So Saul asked Jonathan his son, "Why did the son of Jesse not come either yesterday or to-day to feast?"
So Samuel brought all the tribes of Israel near, and the tribe of Benjamin was chosen.
Delilah therefore took new ropes, and bound him therewith, and said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. And there were liers-in-wait abiding in the chamber. And he brake them from off his arms like a thread.
David remained in the wilderness, in the strongholds, and in the hill country in the wilderness of Ziph. And Saul sought him continually, but God did not give him into his hand.
But I beseech you the rather to do this, that I may be restored to you the sooner.
And Saul's fear of David became all the greater, and he went on hating him, day by day.
And Samuel said all these words of Jehovah to the people who were asking a king.
And the people numbered themselves, and lo, there is not there a man of the inhabitants of Jabesh-Gilead.
In this way Abimelech was rewarded by God for the evil he had done to his father in putting his seventy brothers to death;
And the king said unto her, Fear not: for what sawest thou? And the woman said unto Saul, I saw gods ascending out of the earth.
And the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together at Mizpah, and the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel: and the children of Israel heard , and were afraid of the Philistines.
Brothers, it is clear to me that I have not come to that knowledge; but one thing I do, letting go those things which are past, and stretching out to the things which are before,
Then the five men who had gone to make a search through the land, went in and took the pictured image and the ephod and the family gods and the metal image; and the priest was by the doorway with the six hundred armed men.
At that time, when Eli was laid down in his place (now his eyes had begun to grow dim, so that he could not see),
and we have taken ten men of a hundred, of all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred of a thousand, and a thousand of a myriad, to receive provision for the people, to do, at their coming to Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all the folly which it hath done in Israel.'
And Saul was very angry and this saying was unpleasing to him; and he said, They have given David credit for tens of thousands, and to me for only of thousands, what more is there for him but the kingdom?
He said to him, "O Lord, how shall I save Israel? Behold, my family is the poorest in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house."
`And thou hast passed on thence, and beyond, and hast come in unto the oak of Tabor, and found thee there have three men going up unto God to Beth-El, one bearing three kids, and one bearing three cakes of bread, and one bearing a bottle of wine,
Behold, an old man came from his work out of the field at evening. Now the man was from the hill-country of Ephraim, and he lived in Gibeah; but the men of the place were Benjamites.
So they passed by Jebus, and went on their journey, and the sun went down upon them when they were by Gabaa, which is in the tribe of Benjamin:
So and more also do God to the enemies of David, if I leave of all that is his by the morning light any male,
For in finding fault with them he says, "Behold, days are coming, says Jehovah, when I will complete a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah,
So then, my beloved, even as you have always obeyed, not only in my presence, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling.
And Saul, with Jonathan his son and the people who were with them, was waiting in Geba in the land of Benjamin: but the tents of the Philistines were in Michmash.
For he did put his life in his hand, and slew the Philistine, and Jehovah wrought a great salvation for all Israel: thou sawest it, and didst rejoice; wherefore then wilt thou sin against innocent blood, to slay David without a cause?
And David addeth again to ask at Jehovah, and even Jehovah, answereth him, and saith, `Rise, go down to Keilah, for I am giving the Philistines into thy hand.'
And the men of the city said to Jehoash, "Bring out your son so that he may die, for he hast pulled out the altar of Baal and cut down the Asherah that was besides it."
And his daughter-in-law, wife of Phinehas, pregnant, about to bear, and she heareth the report of the taking of the ark of God, that her father-in-law and her husband have died, and she boweth, and beareth, for her pains have turned upon her.
When he made mention of God's ark, Eli fell from off his seat backward by the side of the gate; and his neck broke, and he died; for he was an old man, and heavy. He had judged Israel forty years.
Then Saul said, "Let them cast the lot between me and my son Jonathan," and Jonathan was chosen.
"Now therefore, if you have dealt truly and righteously, in that you have made Abimelech king, and if you have dealt well with Jerubbaal and his house, and have done to him according to the deserving of his hands
For this cause let the hands which are screen down be lifted up, and let the feeble knees be made strong,
and the messenger of Jehovah appeareth unto him, and saith unto him, `Jehovah with thee, O mighty one of valour.'
And he gathered to him the children of Ammon and Amalek and went and smote Israel, and they took possession of the city of palm-trees.
She lived under Deborah's palm-tree between Ramah and Beth-el in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel came up to her for judgment.
And the man, the master of the house, went out unto them, and said unto them, Nay, my brethren, nay, I pray you, do not so wickedly; seeing that this man is come into my house, do not this folly.
and the elders of Gilead say unto Jephthah, `Therefore, now, we have turned back unto thee; and thou hast gone with us, and fought against the Bene-Ammon, and thou hast been to us for head -- to all the inhabitants of Gilead.'
Then Gideon said to them, I have a request to make to you; let each man give me the ear-rings he hast taken. (for they had gold ear-rings, because they were Ishmaelites.)
So Hannah rose up after they had finished eating and drinking in Shiloh. Now Eli the priest was sitting on his seat by the doorpost of Yahweh's temple.
And Saul was yet the more afraid of David; and Saul was David's enemy continually.
Thou hast made him a little lower than angels: thou crownest him with glory and honor, and hast set him over the works of thy hands:
Quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, waxed valiant in fight, turned to flight the armies of the aliens.
But if you shall not be able to declare it, you shall give me thirty shirts and the same number of coats. They answered him: Put forth the riddle that we may hear it.
And Abiathar informed David that Saul had slain Jehovah's priests.
"Yahweh, when you went out of Seir, when you were marching out of the field of Edom, the earth trembled, the heaven also dropped. Yea, the clouds dropped water.
I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all who oppressed you, and drove them out from before you, and gave you their land.
Do not regard your female servant as worthless, but because of the extent of my worries and my provocation I have spoken all of this."
According to all the works that they have done from the day of My bringing them up out of Egypt, even unto this day, when they forsake Me, and serve other gods -- so they are doing also to thee.
When Saul returned from pursuing the Philistines, they told him, "Look, David is in the wilderness of En Gedi."
Then the Ziphites came up to Saul to Gibeah, saying, "Doesn't David hide himself with us in the strongholds in the woods, in the hill of Hachilah, which is on the south of the desert?
The men of Israel went out to battle against Benjamin: and the men of Israel set the battle in array against them at Gibeah.
And Gideon went in, and made ready a kid, and unleavened cakes of an ephah of flour: the flesh he put in a basket, and he put the broth in a pot, and brought it out unto him under the oak, and presented it.
And Jonathan speaketh good of David unto Saul his father, and saith unto him, `Let not the king sin against his servant, against David, because he hath not sinned against thee, and because his works for thee very good;
minister of the holy places and of the true tabernacle, which Jehovah hast pitched, not man.
And when the cry of the children of Israel, because of Midian, came before Jehovah,
And when the seventh day came, they said to the wife of Samson: Soothe thy husband, and persuade him to tell thee what the riddle meaneth. But if thou wilt not do it, we will burn thee, and thy father's house. Have you called us to the wedding on purpose to strip us?
And the God of peace, who did bring up out of the dead the great shepherd of the sheep -- in the blood of an age-during covenant -- our Lord Jesus,
Then did the horse-hoofs clatter with the coursings, The coursings of their steeds.
By faith the harlot Rahab perished not with them that believed not, when she had received the spies with peace.
The children of Dan went their way; and when Micah saw that they were too mighty for him, he turned and went back to his house.
And all the people also cut down each one his bough, and go after Abimelech, and set at the high place, and burn by these the high place with fire, and also all the men of the tower of Shechem die, about a thousand men and women.
Samuel grew, and Yahweh was with him, and let none of his words fall to the ground.
So that, my beloved, as ye always obedience, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, with fear and trembling your own salvation work out,
Therefore through him let us offer up a sacrifice of praise continually to God, that is, the fruit of lips that confess his name.
And Abiathar showed David that Saul had slain the Lord's priests.
Now there was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish, the son of Abiel, the son of Seror, the son of Bechorath, the son of Aphia, the son of a man of Jemini, valiant and strong.
and Jesse said to David his son, Take, I pray, for thy brethren, this ephah of parched and these ten loaves, and carry them quickly to the camp to thy brethren;
Are they not all ministering spirits, sent to minister for them, who shall receive the inheritance of salvation?
When he had come into his house, he took a knife, and cut up his concubine, and divided her, limb by limb, into twelve pieces, and sent her throughout all the borders of Israel.
And the children of Benjamin came forth out of Gibeah, and destroyed down to the ground of Israel that day twenty and two thousand men.
And Jonathan said unto David, Come, and let us go out into the field. And they went out both of them into the field.
Saul was very angry, and this saying displeased him. He said, "They have ascribed to David ten thousands, and to me they have ascribed only thousands. What can he have more but the kingdom?"
Come, you rulers of Israel, you who gave yourselves freely among the peoples; give praise to Jehovah.
He humbled himself, becoming obedient unto death, even to the death of the cross.
Then the Philistines went and put up their tents in Judah, all round Lehi.
And Saul disguised himself, and put on other raiment, and he went, and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night: and he said, I pray thee, divine unto me by the familiar spirit, and bring me him up, whom I shall name unto thee.
in that it is said, To-day if ye will hear his voice, do not harden your hearts in the provocation;
But when ye saw that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against you, ye said to me, Nay, but a king shall reign over us; when Jehovah your God was your king.
having the same conflict which you saw in me, and now hear is in me.
And they were to prove Israel by them, to know whether they would hearken unto the commandments of Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers by Moses.
And it cometh to pass, about ten days, that even Jehovah, smiteth Nabal, and he dieth,
Then Samuel said to Saul, "Stop and let me tell you what Yahweh said to me last night." So he said to him, "Speak."
Righteous before the time of her death, those attending her said, "Do not fear, for you have given birth to a son." But she did not answer, or pay any attention.
Then the woman came in the dawning of the day, and fell down at the door of the man's house where her lord was, until it was light.
Then David took from her hands her offering: and he said to her, Go back to your house in peace; see, I have given ear to your voice, and taken your oblation with respect.
The battle went hard against Saul, and the archers overtook him; and he was greatly distressed by reason of the archers.
And Elon the Zebulonite died, and was buried in Ajalon in the land of Zebulun, one.
After him Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite judged Israel.
But the army said to Saul, "Must Jonathan die, who accomplished this great victory in Israel? far from it! As Yahweh lives, not a hair from his head will fall to the ground, for he hast worked with God this day." So the army redeemed Jonathan and he did not die.
And even Jehovah, saith unto Gideon, `Too many the people who with thee for My giving Midian into their hand, lest Israel beautify itself against Me, saying, My hand hath given salvation to me;
He said, "Go." He sent her away for two months: and she departed, she and her companions, and mourned her virginity on the mountains.
And the word of Jehovah is unto Samuel, saying,
Then David went up from thence, and dwelt in strongholds of Engaddi.
Then the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Jephthah, and he passed over Gilead, and Manasseh, and passed over Mizpeh of Gilead, and from Mizpeh of Gilead he passed over unto the children of Ammon.
And thou shalt go on forward from thence, and shalt come to the oak of Tabor, and there shall meet thee three men ascent to God, to Beth-el, one carrying three kids, and another carrying three cakes of bread, and another carrying a flask of raisins.
And Samuel bringeth near the whole tribes of Israel, and the tribe of Benjamin is captured,
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Do what seemeth thee good; tarry until thou have weaned him; only Jehovah establish his word. So the woman sitting down, and gave her son suck until she weaned him.
And Saul answered, God do so and more also: for thou shalt surely die, Jonathan.
For they came up with their livestock and their tents. They came in as locusts for multitude. Both they and their camels were without number; and they came into the land to destroy it.
Out of Ephraim he destroyed them into Amalec, and after him out of Benjamin into thy people, O Amalec: Out of Machir there came down princes, and out of Zebulun they that led the army to fight.
Jehovah hath delivered into your bands the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeb: what could I have done like to what you have done? And when he had said this, their spirit was pacified, with which they swelled against him.
And David was in a very precarious elevation, for the people spoke of stoning him, for the souls of all the people were bitter, each one over his sons and his daughters. But David strengthened himself in Yahweh his God.
Then the Hebrews who had been with the Philistines for some time, and had gone up with them to their tents, turning round were joined to those who were with Saul and Jonathan.
Then he said to Jether, his oldest son, Up! Put them to death. But the boy did not take out his sword, fearing because he was still a boy.
Now I have heard that you have shearers. Now while your shepherds were with us, we did not mistreat them, and nothing of theirs was missing, all the days they were in Carmel.
And Elkanah her husband saith to her, `Hannah, why weepest thou? and why dost thou not eat? and why is thy heart suffering? am I not better to thee than ten sons?'
And this will we do, if God permit.
Then said all the trees to the thorn-bush, Come thou, reign over us.
And Saul saw that he was exceeding understanding, and began to beware of him.
And as for me, Far be it from me that I should sin against Jehovah in ceasing to pray for you; but I will teach you the good and the right way:
And Elkanah goeth to Ramath, unto his house, and the youth hath been serving Jehovah, the presence of Eli the priest;
Women received back their dead by resurrection. But others were tortured, not accepting release, in order that they might gain a better resurrection.
Therefore they sent the ark of God to Ekron. And it came to pass, as the ark of God came to Ekron, that the Ekronites cried out, saying, They have brought about the ark of the God of Israel to us, to slay us and our people.
Today, Yahweh will deliver you into my hand. I will strike you, and take your head from off you. I will give the dead bodies of the army of the Philistines to-day to the birds of the sky, and to the wild animals of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel,
And if thus I say to the young man, Lo, the arrows beyond thee, -- go, for Jehovah hath sent thee away;
But *we* are not drawers back to perdition, but of faith to saving soul.
And she said to him, Give me a blessing; because you have put me in a dry south-land, now give me springs of water. And Caleb gave her the upper spring and the lower spring, So
And Abimelech assaulting the city all that day: and took it, and killed the inhabitants thereof, and demolished it, so that he sowed Salt in it.
Be not led away with various and strange doctrines. For it is best that the heart be established with grace, not with meats; that have not profited those that walk in them.
Against whom hast the king of Israel come out? whom do you pursue? A dead dog? A flea?
And he had thirty sons that rode on thirty ass colts, and they had thirty cities, which are called Havothjair unto this day, which are in the land of Gilead.
Not one living man or woman did David ever take back with him to Gath, fearing that they might give account of what had taken place, and say, This is what David did, and so hast he been doing all the time while he hast been living in the land of the Philistines.
And he said to me, 'Look, you will conceive and bear a son, so then, do not drink wine or strong drink, and do not eat anything unclean, for the boy will be a Nazirite of God from birth until the day of his death.'"
The men of Ephraim said to him, "Why have you treated us this way, that you didn't call us when you went to fight with Midian?" They rebuked him sharply.
Now the name of his first-born son was Joel: and the name of the second was Abia, judges in Bersabee.
And when Saul went for directions to Jehovah, Jehovah gave him no answer, by a dream or by the Urim or by the prophets.
And the asses of Kish Saul's father were lost. And Kish said to Saul his son, Take now one of the servants with thee, and arise, go seek asses.
And they rise early, and it cometh to pass, at the ascending of the dawn, that Samuel calleth unto Saul, on the roof, saying, `Rise, and I send thee away;' and Saul riseth, and they go out, both of them -- he and Samuel, without.
But to which of the angels said he at any time, Sit on my right hand, until I make thine enemies underneath thy feet?
From the heavens they fought: The stars from their highways fought with Sisera.
And while he was talking to them, the fighter, the Philistine of Gath, Goliath by name, came out from the Philistines' lines and said the same words, in David's hearing.
which we have, as an anchor of the soul, both sure and stedfast, and entering into that within the veil,
Then you are to go down before me to Gilgal, where I will come to you, for the oblation of burned offerings and peace-offerings: go on waiting there for seven days till I come to you and make clear to you what you have to do.
And Samson called to Yahweh and said, "My Lord Yahweh, remember me! Please give me strength this one time, O God, so that I can repay with one act of avenge to the Philistines for my eyes."
There was at that time Jephte the Galaadite, a most valiant man and a warrior, the son of a woman that was a harlot, and his father was Galaad.
For the priesthood being translated, it is necessary that a translation also be made of the law.
And the six hundred men appointed with their weapons of war, that were of the children of Dan, stood by the entrance of the gate.
Asher also destroyed not the inhabitants of Accho, and of Sidon, of Ahalab, and of Achazib, and of Helba, and of Aphec, and of Rohob:
Wherefore the sin of the young men was very great before Jehovah; for men abhorred the oblation of Jehovah.
And the kine go straight in the way, on the way to Beth-Shemesh, in one highway they have gone, going and lowing, and have not turned aside right or left; and the princes of the Philistines are going after them unto the border of Beth-Shemesh.
and build an altar to Jehovah thy God upon the top of this strong place in the Ordered manner, and take the second bullock, and offer up a burnt-offering with the wood of the Asherah that thou shalt cut down.
about ten days later, Yahweh struck Nabal, so that he died.
Yahweh called Samuel again the third time. He arose and went to Eli, and said, "Here I am, for you called me." Eli perceived that Yahweh had called the child.
And Saul said to him: Why have you conspired against me, thou, and the son of Isai, and thou hast given him bread and a sword, and hast devised Jehovah for him, that he should rise up against me, continuing a traitor unto this day.
So they took counsel, and said: Behold, there is a yearly feast of Jehovah in Silo, which is situate on the north of the city of Beth-el, and on the east side of the way, that goeth from Beth-el to Shechem, and on the south of the village of Lebona.
But Saul and the people spared Agag, And the best of the sheep, of the cattle, and of the fat calves, and the lambs, and all that was good, and were not willing to utterly destroy them; but everything that was vile and wilt, that they destroyed utterly.
And she vowed a vow, and said, O Jehovah of hosts, if thou wilt indeed look on the affliction of thy handmaid, and remember me, and not forget thy handmaid, but wilt give unto thy handmaid a man child, then I will give him to Jehovah all the days of his life and there shall no razor come upon his head.
And be seen in him, not having my righteousness which is of the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is of God through faith;
Your daughters he will take to be makers of perfumes and cooks and bread-makers.
