1 Behold what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called children of God; and such we are. For this cause the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. 
2 Beloved, now are we children of God, and it is not yet made manifest what we shall be. We know that, if he shall be manifested, we shall be like him; for we shall see him even as he is. 
3 And every one that hath this hope set on him purifieth himself, even as he is pure. 
4 Every one that doeth sin doeth also lawlessness; and sin is lawlessness. 
5 And ye know that he was manifested to take away sins; and in him is no sin. 
6 Whosoever abideth in him sinneth not: whosoever sinneth hath not seen him, neither knoweth him. 
7 My little children, let no man lead you astray: he that doeth righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous: 
8 he that doeth sin is of the devil; for the devil sinneth from the beginning. To this end was the Son of God manifested, that he might destroy the works of the devil. 
9 Whosoever is begotten of God doeth no sin, because his seed abideth in him: and he cannot sin, because he is begotten of God. 
10 In this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil: whosoever doeth not righteousness is not of God, neither he that loveth not his brother. 
11 For this is the message which ye heard from the beginning, that we should love one another: 
12 not as Cain was of the evil one, and slew his brother. And wherefore slew he him? Because his works were evil, and his brother's righteous.
13 Marvel not, brethren, if the world hateth you. 
14 We know that we have passed out of death into life, because we love the brethren. He that loveth not abideth in death. 
15 Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer: and ye know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him. 
16 Hereby know we love, because he laid down his life for us: and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. 
17 But whoso hath the world's goods, and beholdeth his brother in need, and shutteth up his compassion from him, how doth the love of God abide in him? 
18 My little children, let us not love in word, neither with the tongue; but in deed and truth. 
19 Hereby shall we know that we are of the truth, and shall assure our heart before him: 
20 because if our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart, and knoweth all things. 
21 Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, we have boldness toward God; 
22 and whatsoever we ask we receive of him, because we keep his commandments and do the things that are pleasing in his sight. 
23 And this is his commandment, that we should believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ, and love one another, even as he gave us commandment. 
24 And he that keepeth his commandments abideth in him, and he in him. And hereby we know that he abideth in us, by the Spirit which he gave us.