1 So then Pilate took Jesus and had him flogged. 
2 And the soldiers wove a crown of thorns and placed it on his head, and put a purple robe on him, 
3 and were coming up to him and saying, "Hail, king of the Jews!" and were giving him slaps in the face.
4 And Pilate came outside again and said to them, "Behold, I am bringing him outside to you, so that you will know that I find no basis for an accusation against him." 
5 Then Jesus came outside wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe, and he said to them, "Behold the man!" 
6 So when they saw him, the chief priests and the officers shouted, saying, "Crucify! Crucify!" Pilate said to them, "You take him and crucify him! For I do not find a basis for an accusation against him." 
7 The Jews replied to him, "We have a law, and according to the law he ought to die, because he made himself out to be the Son of God!"
8 So when Pilate heard this statement, he was even more afraid, 
9 and he entered into the governor's residence again and said to Jesus, "Where are you from?" But Jesus did not give him an answer. 
10 So Pilate said to him, "Will you not speak to me? Do you not know that I have authority to release you, and I have authority to crucify you?" 
11 Jesus replied to him, "You would not have any authority over me unless it was given to you from above. For this reason the one who handed me over to you has greater sin."
12 From this point on Pilate was seeking to release him, but the Jews shouted, saying, "If you release this man, you are not a friend of Caesar! Everyone who makes himself out to be a king opposes Caesar!" 
13 So Pilate, when he heard these words, brought Jesus outside and sat down on the judgment seat, in the place called The Stone Pavement (but Gabbatha in Aramaic). 
14 (Now it was the day of preparation of the Passover; it was about the sixth hour.) And he said to the Jews, "Behold your king!"
15 Then those shouted, "Away with him! Away with him! Crucify him!" Pilate said to them, "Shall I crucify your king?" The chief priests replied, "We do not have a king except Caesar!" 
16 So then he handed him over to them in order that he could be crucified. So they took Jesus, 
17 and carrying for himself the cross, he went out to the place called The Place of a Skull (which is called Golgotha in Aramaic), 
18 where they crucified him, and with him two others, one on each side, and Jesus in the middle. 
19 And Pilate also wrote a notice and placed it on the cross, and it was written: "Jesus the Nazarene, the king of the Jews." 
20 So many of the Jews read this notice, because the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city. And it was written in Aramaic, in Latin, and in Greek. 
21 Then the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, "Do not write 'The king of the Jews,' but, 'He said, I am king of the Jews.'" 
22 Pilate replied, "What I have written, I have written."
23 Then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his clothing and made four shares—for each soldier a share—and the tunic. (Now the tunic was seamless, woven from the top in a single piece.) 
24 So they said to one another, "Let us not tear it apart, but cast lots for it, to see whose it will be," so that the scripture would be fulfilled that says, "They divided my garments among themselves, and for my clothing they cast lots." Thus the soldiers did these things.
25 Now his mother and the sister of his mother, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene were standing near the cross of Jesus. 
26 So Jesus, seeing his mother and the disciple whom he loved standing there, said to his mother, "Woman, behold your son!" 
27 Then he said to the disciple, "Behold your mother!" And from that hour the disciple took her into his own home.
28 After this, Jesus, knowing that now at last everything was completed, in order that the scripture would be fulfilled, said, "I am thirsty." 
29 A jar full of sour wine was standing there, so they put a sponge full of the sour wine on a branch of hyssop and brought it to his mouth. 
30 Then when he had received the sour wine, Jesus said, "It is completed," and bowing his head, he gave up his spirit.
31 Then the Jews, because it was the day of preparation, so that the bodies would not remain on the cross on the Sabbath (for that Sabbath was an important day), asked Pilate that their legs could be broken and they could be taken away. 
32 So the soldiers came and broke the legs of the first and of the other who had been crucified with him. 
33 But when they came to Jesus, after they saw he was already dead, they did not break his legs. 
34 But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and blood and water came out immediately. 
35 And the one who has seen it has testified, and his testimony is true, and that person knows that he is telling the truth, so that you also may believe. 
36 For these things happened in order that the scripture would be fulfilled: "Not a bone of his will be broken." 
37 And again another scripture says, "They will look on the one whom they have pierced."
38 And after these things, Joseph who was from Arimathea, who was a disciple of Jesus (but a secret one for fear of the Jews), asked Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus. And Pilate allowed it, so he came and took away his body. 
39 And Nicodemus—the one who had come to him formerly at night—also came, bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes weighing about a hundred pounds. 
40 So they took the body of Jesus and wrapped it in strips of linen cloth with the fragrant spices, as is the Jews' custom to prepare for burial. 
41 Now there was a garden at the place where he was crucified, and in the garden a new tomb in which no one was yet buried. 
42 So there, on account of the day of preparation of the Jews, because the tomb was close by, they buried Jesus.