1 "Do not let your hearts be troubled. You believe in God; believe also in me. 
2 In my Father's house there are many dwelling places; but if not, I would have told you, because I am going away to prepare a place for you. 
3 And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you to myself, so that where I am, you may be also. 
4 And you know the way where I am going."
5 Thomas said to him, "Lord, we do not know where you are going. How are we able to know the way?" 
6 Jesus said to him, "I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. 
7 If you had known me, you would have known my Father also. From now on you know him and have seen him."
8 Philip said to him, "Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us." 
9 Jesus said to him, "Am I with you so long a time and you have not known me, Philip? The one who has seen me has seen the Father! How can you say, 'Show us the Father?' 
10 Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me? The words that I say to you I do not speak from myself, but the Father residing in me does his works. 
11 Believe me that I am in the Father and the Father is in me; but if not, believe because of the works themselves. 
12 Truly, truly I say to you, the one who believes in me, the works that I am doing he will do also, and he will do greater works than these because I am going to the Father. 
13 And whatever you ask in my name, I will do this, in order that the Father may be glorified in the Son. 
14 If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it.
15 "If you love me, you will keep my commandments. 
16 And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Advocate, in order that he may be with you forever—
17 the Spirit of truth, whom the world is not able to receive, because it does not see him or know him. You know him, because he resides with you and will be in you.
18 "I will not leave you as orphans; I am coming to you. 
19 Yet a little time and the world will see me no longer, but you will see me; because I live, you also will live. 
20 On that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you are in me, and I am in you. 
21 The one who has my commandments and keeps them—that one is the one who loves me. And the one who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and will reveal myself to him."
22 Judas (not Iscariot) said to him, "Lord, why is it that you are going to reveal yourself to us and not to the world?" 
23 Jesus answered and said to him, "If anyone loves me he will keep my word, and my Father will love him, and we will come to him and will take up residence with him. 
24 The one who does not love me does not keep my words, and the word that you hear is not mine, but the Father's who sent me. 
25 These things I have spoken to you while residing with you. 
26 But the Advocate, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name—that one will teach you all things, and will remind you of everything that I said to you.
27 "Peace I leave with you; my peace I give to you—not as the world gives, I give to you. Do not let your hearts be troubled, and do not let them be afraid. 
28 You have heard that I said to you, 'I am going away, and I am coming to you.' If you loved me, you would have rejoiced that I am going to the Father, because the Father is greater than I am. 
29 And now I have told you before it happens, so that when it happens, you may believe. 
30 I will no longer speak much with you, for the ruler of the world is coming, and he has no power over me. 
31 But so that the world may know that I love the Father, and just as the Father has commanded me, thus I am doing. Get up, let us go from here!