1 Now on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene came to the tomb early, while it was still dark, and saw the stone had been taken away from the tomb. 
2 So she ran and came to Simon Peter and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved and said to them, "They have taken away the Lord from the tomb and we do not know where they have put him!" 
3 Then Peter and the other disciple went out and were going to the tomb. 
4 And the two were running together, and the other disciple ran ahead, faster than Peter, and came to the tomb first. 
5 And bending over to look, he saw the strips of linen cloth lying there, though he did not go in. 
6 Then Simon Peter also came following him, and he went into the tomb and saw the strips of linen cloth lying there, 
7 and the facecloth that was on his head—not lying with the strips of linen cloth, but folded up separately in one place. 
8 So then the other disciple who had come to the tomb first also went in, and he saw and believed. 
9 (For they did not yet know the scripture that it was necessary for him to rise from the dead.)
10 Then the disciples went away again to their own homes. 
11 But Mary stood outside at the tomb, weeping. Then, while she was weeping, she bent over to look into the tomb, 
12 and she saw two angels in white, seated one at the head and one at the feet where the body of Jesus had been lying. 
13 And they said to her, "Woman, why are you weeping?" She said to them, "They have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have put him!" 
14 When she had said these things, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there, and she did not know that it was Jesus.
15 Jesus said to her, "Woman, why are you weeping? Who are you looking for?" She thought that it was the gardener, and said to him, "Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have put him, and I will take him." 
16 Jesus said to her, "Mary." She turned around and said to him in Aramaic, "Rabboni" (which means "Teacher"). 
17 Jesus said to her, "Do not touch me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father. But go to my brothers and tell them, 'I am ascending to my Father and your Father, and my God and your God.'" 
18 Mary Magdalene came and announced to the disciples, "I have seen the Lord," and he had said these things to her.
19 Now when it was evening on that day—the first day of the week—and the doors had been shut where the disciples were because of fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in their midst and said to them, "Peace to you." 
20 And when he had said this, he showed his hands and his side to them. Then the disciples rejoiced when they saw the Lord. 
21 So Jesus said to them again, "Peace to you. As the Father has sent me, I also send you." 
22 And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said to them, "Receive the Holy Spirit. 
23 If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them. If you retain the sins of any, they are retained."
24 Now Thomas, one of the twelve, who was called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came. 
25 So the other disciples said to him, "We have seen the Lord!" But he said to them, "Unless I see in his hands the mark of the nails, and put my finger into the mark of the nails, and put my hand into his side, I will never believe!"
26 And after eight days his disciples were again inside, and Thomas with them. Although the doors had been shut, Jesus came and stood in their midst and said, "Peace to you." 
27 Then he said to Thomas, "Place your finger here and see my hands, and place your hand and put it into my side. And do not be unbelieving, but believing!" 
28 Thomas answered and said to him, "My Lord and my God!" 
29 Jesus said to him, "Because you have seen me, have you believed? Blessed are those who have not seen and have believed."
30 Now Jesus also performed many other signs in the presence of the disciples which are not recorded in this book, 
31 but these things are recorded in order that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name.