1 Now before the feast of Passover, Jesus, knowing that his hour had come that he would depart from this world to the Father, and having loved his own in the world, loved them to the end. 
2 And as a dinner was taking place, when the devil had already put into the heart of Judas son of Simon Iscariot that he should betray him, 
3 because he knew that the Father had given him all things into his hands, and that he had come forth from God and was going away to God, 
4 he got up from the dinner and took off his outer clothing, and taking a towel, tied it around himself. 
5 Then he poured water into the washbasin and began to wash the feet of the disciples, and to wipe them dry with the towel which he had tied around himself.
6 Then he came to Simon Peter. He said to him, "Lord, are you going to wash my feet?" 
7 Jesus answered and said to him, "What I am doing you do not understand now, but you will understand after these things." 
8 Peter said to him, "You will never wash my feet forever!" Jesus replied to him, "Unless I wash you, you do not have a share with me." 
9 Simon Peter said to him, "Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head!" 
10 Jesus said to him, "The one who has bathed only needs to wash his feet, but is completely clean. And you are clean, but not all of you." 
11 (For he knew the one who would betray him; because of this he said, "Not all of you are clean.")
12 So when he had washed their feet and taken his outer clothing and reclined at table again, he said to them, "Do you understand what I have done for you? 
13 You call me 'Teacher' and 'Lord,' and you speak correctly, for I am. 
14 If then I—your Lord and Teacher—wash your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet. 
15 For I have given you an example, that just as I have done for you, you also do. 
16 Truly, truly I say to you, a slave is not greater than his master, nor a messenger greater than the one who sent him. 
17 If you understand these things, you are blessed if you do them.
18 "I am not speaking about all of you. I know whom I have chosen, but in order that the scripture would be fulfilled, 'The one who eats my bread has lifted up his heel against me.' 
19 From now on I am telling you before it happens, in order that when it happens you may believe that I am he. 
20 Truly, truly I say to you, the one who receives anyone I send receives me, and the one who receives me receives the one who sent me."
21 When he had said these things, Jesus was troubled in spirit and testified and said, "Truly, truly I say to you that one of you will betray me." 
22 The disciples began looking at one another, uncertain about whom he was speaking. 
23 One of his disciples—the one whom Jesus loved—was reclining close beside Jesus. 
24 So Simon Peter gestured for this one to inquire who it was about whom he was speaking. 
25 He leaned back accordingly against Jesus' chest and said to him, "Lord, who is it?" 
26 Jesus replied, "It is he to whom I dip the piece of bread and give it to him." Then after dipping the piece of bread, he gave it to Judas son of Simon Iscariot. 
27 And after the piece of bread, then Satan entered into him. Then Jesus said to him, "What you are doing, do quickly!" 
28 (Now no one of those reclining at table knew for what reason he said this to him. 
29 For some were thinking because Judas had the money box, Jesus was telling him, "Purchase what we need for the feast," or that he should give something to the poor.) 
30 So after he had taken the piece of bread, he went out immediately. And it was night.
31 Then, when he had gone out, Jesus said, "Now the Son of Man is glorified, and God is glorified in him. 
32 If God is glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself, and will glorify him immediately. 
33 Children, yet a little time I am with you. You will seek me and just as I said to the Jews, "Where I am going you cannot come," now I say also to you.
34 "A new commandment I give to you: that you love one another—just as I have loved you, that you also love one another. 
35 By this everyone will know that you are my disciples—if you have love for one another."
36 Simon Peter said to him, "Lord, where are you going?" Jesus replied, "Where I am going you cannot follow me now, but you will follow later." 
37 Peter said to him, "Lord, why am I not able to follow you now? I will lay down my life for you!" 
38 Jesus replied, "Will you lay down your life for me? Truly, truly I say to you, the rooster will not crow until you have denied me three times!