1 Then, six days before the Passover, Jesus came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, whom Jesus had raised from the dead. 
2 So they made him a dinner there, and Martha was serving, but Lazarus was one of the ones reclining at table with him. 
3 Then Mary took a pound of ointment of very valuable genuine nard and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair. And the house was filled with the fragrance of the ointment. 
4 But Judas Iscariot, one of his disciples (the one who was going to betray him) said, 
5 "Why was this ointment not sold for three hundred denarii and given to the poor?" 
6 (Now he said this not because he was concerned about the poor, but because he was a thief, and having the money box, he used to steal what was put into it.) 
7 So Jesus said, "Leave her alone, so that she may keep it for the day of my preparation for burial. 
8 For you have the poor with you always, but you do not always have me."
9 Now a large crowd of Jews found out that he was there, and they came, not only because of Jesus, but so that they could see Lazarus also, whom he raised from the dead. 
10 So the chief priests decided that they would kill Lazarus also, 
11 because on account of him many of the Jews were going and believing in Jesus.
12 On the next day the large crowd who had come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, 
13 took the branches of palm trees and went out to meet him, and began crying out, "Hosanna! Blessed is the one who comes in the name of the Lord, even the king of Israel!"
14 So Jesus found a young donkey and sat on it, just as it is written,
15 "Do not be afraid, daughter of Zion! Behold, your king is coming, seated on the foal of a donkey!"
16 (His disciples did not understand these things at first, but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things had been written about him and they did these things to him.) 
17 So the crowd who was with him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead were continuing to testify. 
18 Because of this also the crowd went to meet him, for they had heard that he had performed this sign. 
19 So the Pharisees said to one another, "You see that you are accomplishing nothing! Behold, the world has gone after him."
20 Now some Greeks were among those who had gone up in order to worship at the feast. 
21 So these approached Philip, who was from Bethsaida in Galilee, and began asking him saying, "Sir, we want to see Jesus." 
22 Philip went and told Andrew. Andrew and Philip went and told Jesus. 
23 And Jesus answered them, saying, "The hour has come that the Son of Man will be glorified. 
24 Truly, truly I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains by itself alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit. 
25 The one who loves his life loses it, and the one who hates his life in this world preserves it for eternal life. 
26 If anyone serves me, he must follow me, and where I am, there my servant will be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him.
27 "Now my soul is troubled, and what shall I say? 'Father, deliver me from this hour'? But for this reason I have come to this hour! 
28 Father, glorify your name!" Then a voice came from heaven, "I have both glorified it, and I will glorify it again." 
29 Now the crowd that stood there and heard it said it had thundered. Others were saying, "An angel has spoken to him!" 
30 Jesus answered and said, "This voice has not happened for my sake, but for your sake. 
31 Now is the judgment of this world! Now the ruler of this world will be thrown out! 
32 And I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself." 
33 (Now he said this to indicate by what sort of death he was going to die.)
34 Then the crowd replied to him, "We have heard from the law that the Christ remains forever! And how do you say that the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of Man?" 
35 So Jesus said to them, "Yet a little time the light is with you! Walk while you have the light, so that the darkness does not overtake you! And the one who walks in the darkness does not know where he is going. 
36 While you have the light, believe in the light, in order that you may become sons of light." Jesus said these things, and then he went away and was hidden from them.
37 But as many signs as he had performed before them, they did not believe in him, 
38 in order that the word of the prophet Isaiah would be fulfilled, who said, "Lord, who has believed our message? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?"
39 For this reason they were not able to believe, because again Isaiah said,
40 "He has blinded their eyes and hardened their hearts, lest they see with their eyes and understand with their hearts and turn, and I heal them."
41 Isaiah said these things because he saw his glory, and he spoke about him.
42 Yet despite that, even many of the rulers believed in him, but because of the Pharisees they did not confess it, so that they would not be expelled from the synagogue. 
43 For they loved the praise of men more than praise from God.
44 But Jesus cried out and said, "The one who believes in me does not believe in me, but in the one who sent me, 
45 and the one who sees me sees the one who sent me. 
46 I have come as a light into the world, in order that everyone who believes in me will not remain in the darkness. 
47 And if anyone hears my words and does not observe them, I will not judge him. For I have not come to judge the world, but to save the world. 
48 The one who rejects me and does not accept my words has one who judges him; the word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day. 
49 For I have not spoken from myself, but the Father himself who sent me has commanded me what I should say and what I should speak. 
50 And I know that his commandment is eternal life. So the things that I say, just as the Father said to me, thus I say."