1 Jesus said these things, and lifting up his eyes to heaven he said, "Father, the hour has come! Glorify your Son, in order that your Son may glorify you—
2 just as you have given him authority over all flesh, in order that he would give eternal life to them—everyone whom you have given him. 
3 Now this is eternal life: that they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. 
4 I have glorified you on earth by completing the work that you have given me to do. 
5 And now, Father, you glorify me at your side with the glory that I had at your side before the world existed.
6 "I have revealed your name to the men whom you gave me out of the world. They were yours, and you have given them to me, and they have kept your word. 
7 Now they understand that all the things that you have given me are from you, 
8 because the words that you gave to me I have given to them, and they received them and know truly that I have come from you, and they have believed that you have sent me. 
9 I am asking on behalf of them. I am not asking on behalf of the world, but on behalf of those whom you have given me, because they are yours, 
10 and all my things are yours, and your things are mine, and I have been glorified in them. 
11 And I am no longer in the world, and they are in the world, and I am coming to you. Holy Father, keep them in your name, which you have given to me, so that they may be one, just as we are. 
12 When I was with them, I kept them in your name, which you have given to me, and guarded them, and none of them has perished except the son of destruction, in order that the scripture would be fulfilled. 
13 And now I am coming to you, and I am saying these things in the world so that they may have my joy completed in themselves. 
14 I have given them your word, and the world has hated them, because they are not of the world just as I am not of the world. 
15 I do not ask that you take them out of the world, but that you protect them from the evil one. 
16 They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. 
17 Sanctify them in the truth—your word is truth. 
18 Just as you sent me into the world, I also have sent them into the world. 
19 And for them I sanctify myself, so that they themselves also may be sanctified in the truth.
20 "And I do not ask on behalf of these only, but also on behalf of those who believe in me through their word, 
21 that they all may be one, just as you, Father, are in me and I am in you, that they also may be in us, in order that the world may believe that you sent me. 
22 And the glory that you have given to me, I have given to them, in order that they may be one, just as we are one—
23 I in them, and you in me, in order that they may be completed in one, so that the world may know that you sent me, and you have loved them just as you have loved me.
24 "Father, those whom you have given to me—I want that those also may be with me where I am, in order that they may see my glory that you have given me because you loved me before the foundation of the world. 
25 Righteous Father, although the world does not know you, yet I have known you, and these men have come to know that you sent me. 
26 And I made known to them your name, and will make it known, in order that the love with which you loved me may be in them, and I may be in them."