1 And he brought me into the temple, and he measured the fronts six cubits broad on this side, and six cubits on that side, the breadth of the tabernacle.
2 And the breadth of the gate was ten cubits: and the sides of the gate five cubits on this side, and five cubits on that side: and he measured the length thereof forty cubits, and the breadth twenty cubits.
3 Then going inward he measured the front of the gate two cubits: and the gate six cubits, and the breadth of the gate seven cubits.
4 And he measured the length thereof twenty cubits, and the breadth twenty cubits, before the face of the temple: and he said to me: This is the holy of holies.
5 And he measured the wall of the house six cubits: and the breadth of every side chamber four cubits round about the house on every side.
6 And the side chambers one by another, were twice thirty-three: and they bore outwards, that they might enter in through the wall of the house in the sides round about, to hold in, and not to touch the wall of the temple.
7 And there was a broad passage round about, going up by winding stairs, and it led into the upper loft of the temple all round: therefore was the temple broader in the higher parts: and so from the lower parts they went to the higher by the midst.
8 And I saw in the house the height round about, the foundations of the side chambers which were the measure of a reed the space of six cubits:
9 And the thickness of the wall for the side chamber without, which was five cubits: and the inner house was within the side chambers of the house.
10 And between the chambers was the breadth of twenty cubits round about the house on every side.
11 And the door of the side chambers was turned towards the place of prayer: one door was toward the north, and another door was toward the south: and the breadth of the place for prayer, was five cubits round about.
12 And the building that was separate, and turned to the way that looked toward the sea, was seventy cubits broad: and the wall of the building, five cubits thick round about: and ninety cubits long.
13 And he measured the length of the house, a hundred cubits: and the separate building, and the walls thereof, a hundred cubits in length.
14 And the breadth before the face of the house, and of the separate place toward the east, a hundred cubits.
15 And he measured the length of the building over against it, which was separated at the back of it: and the galleries on both sides a hundred cubits: and the inner temple, and the porches of the court.
16 The thresholds, and the oblique windows, and the galleries round about on three sides, over against the threshold of every one, and floored with wood all round about: and the ground was up to the windows, and the windows were shut over the doors.
17 And even to the inner house, and without all the wall round about within and without, by measure.
18 And there were cherubims and palm trees wrought, so that a palm tree was between a cherub and a cherub, and every cherub had two faces.
19 The face of a man was toward the palm tree on one side, and the face of a lion was toward the palm tree on the other side: set forth through all the house round about.
20 From the ground even to the upper parts of the gate, were cherubims and palm trees wrought in the wall of the temple.
21 The threshold was foursquare, and the face of the sanctuary, sight to sight.
22 The altar of wood was three cubits high: and the length thereof was two cubits: and the corners thereof, and the length thereof, and the walls thereof were of wood. And he said to me: This is the table before the Lord.
23 And there were two doors in the temple, and in the sanctuary.
24 And in the two doors on both sides were two little doors, which were folded within each other: for there were two wickets on both sides of the doors.
25 And there were cherubims also wrought in the doors of the temple, and the figures of palm trees, like as were made on the walls: for which cause also the planks were thicker in the front of the porch without.
26 Upon which were the oblique windows, and the representation of palm trees on this side, and on that side in the sides of the porch, according to the sides of the house, and the breadth of the walls.