1 But I make known to you, brethren, the glad tidings which I announced to you, which also ye received, in which also ye stand,
2 by which also ye are saved, (if ye hold fast the word which I announced to you as the glad tidings,) unless indeed ye have believed in vain.
3 For I delivered to you, in the first place, what also I had received, that Christ died for our sins, according to the scriptures;
4 and that he was buried; and that he was raised the third day, according to the scriptures;
5 and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve.
6 Then he appeared to above five hundred brethren at once, of whom the most remain until now, but some also have fallen asleep.
7 Then he appeared to James; then to all the apostles;
8 and last of all, as to an abortion, he appeared to *me* also.
9 For *I* am the least of the apostles, who am not fit to be called apostle, because I have persecuted the assembly of God.
10 But by God's grace I am what I am; and his grace, which  towards me, has not been vain; but I have laboured more abundantly than they all, but not *I*, but the grace of God which  with me.
11 Whether, therefore, I or they, thus we preach, and thus ye have believed.
12 Now if Christ is preached that he is raised from among  dead, how say some among you that there is not a resurrection of [those that are] dead?
13 But if there is not a resurrection of [those that are] dead, neither is Christ raised:
14 but if Christ is not raised, then, indeed, vain also  our preaching, and vain also your faith.
15 And we are found also false witnesses of God; for we have witnessed concerning God that he raised the Christ, whom he has not raised if indeed [those that are] dead are not raised.
16 For if [those that are] dead are not raised, neither is Christ raised;
17 but if Christ be not raised, your faith  vain; ye are yet in your sins.
18 Then indeed also those who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished.
19 If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are  most miserable of all men.
20 (But now Christ is raised from among  dead, first-fruits of those fallen asleep.
21 For since by man  death, by man also resurrection of [those that are] dead.
22 For as in the Adam all die, thus also in the Christ all shall be made alive.
23 But each in his own rank:  first-fruits, Christ; then those that are the Christ's at his coming.
24 Then the end, when he gives up the kingdom to him [who is] God and Father; when he shall have annulled all rule and all authority and power.
25 For he must reign until he put all enemies under his feet.
26  last enemy  is annulled  death.
27 For he has put all things in subjection under his feet. But when he says that all things are put in subjection, [it is] evident that [it is] except him who put all things in subjection to him.
28 But when all things shall have been brought into subjection to him, then the Son also himself shall be placed in subjection to him who put all things in subjection to him, that God may be all in all.)
29 Since what shall the baptised for the dead do if [those that are] dead rise not at all? why also are they baptised for them?
30 Why do *we* also endanger ourselves every hour?
31 Daily I die, by your boasting which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord.
32 If, [to speak] after the manner of man, I have fought with beasts in Ephesus, what is the profit to me if [those that are] dead do not rise? let us eat and drink; for to-morrow we die.
33 Be not deceived: evil communications corrupt good manners.
34 Awake up righteously, and sin not; for some are ignorant of God: I speak to you as a matter of shame.
35 But some one will say, How are the dead raised? and with what body do they come?
36 Fool; what *thou* sowest is not quickened unless it die.
37 And what thou sowest, thou sowest not the body that shall be, but a bare grain: it may be of wheat, or some one of the rest:
38 and God gives to it a body as he has pleased, and to each of the seeds its own body.
39 Every flesh  not the same flesh, but one  of men, and another flesh of beasts, and another  of birds, and another of fishes.
40 And [there are] heavenly bodies, and earthly bodies: but different is the glory of the heavenly, different that of the earthly:
41 one  sun's glory, and another  moon's glory, and another  stars' glory; for star differs from star in glory.
42 Thus also  the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption, it is raised in incorruptibility.
43 It is sown in dishonour, it is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness, it is raised in power.
44 It is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body: if there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual .
45 Thus also it is written, The first man Adam became a living soul; the last Adam a quickening spirit.
46 But that which is spiritual  not first, but that which is natural, then that which is spiritual:
47 the first man out of  earth, made of dust; the second man, out of heaven.
48 Such as he made of dust, such also those made of dust; and such as the heavenly , such also the heavenly .
49 And as we have borne the image of the  made of dust, we shall bear also the image of the heavenly .
50 But this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit God's kingdom, nor does corruption inherit incorruptibility.
51 Behold, I tell you a mystery: We shall not all fall asleep, but we shall all be changed,
52 in an instant, in  twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet; for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and *we* shall be changed.
53 For this corruptible must needs put on incorruptibility, and this mortal put on immortality.
54 But when this corruptible shall have put on incorruptibility, and this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall come to pass the word written: Death has been swallowed up in victory.
55 Where, O death,  thy sting? where, O death, thy victory?
56 Now the sting of death  sin, and the power of sin the law;
57 but thanks to God, who gives us the victory by our Lord Jesus Christ.
58 So then, my beloved brethren, be firm, immovable, abounding always in the work of the Lord, knowing that your toil is not in vain in  Lord.