1 Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I directed the assemblies of Galatia, so do *ye* do also.
2 On  first of  week let each of you put by at home, laying up  whatever  he may have prospered, that there may be no collections when I come.
3 And when I am arrived, whomsoever ye shall approve, these I will send with letters to carry your bounty to Jerusalem:
4 and if it be suitable that *I* also should go, they shall go with me.
5 But I will come to you when I shall have gone through Macedonia; for I do go through Macedonia.
6 But perhaps I will stay with you, or even winter with you, that *ye* may set me forward wheresoever I may go.
7 For I will not see you now in passing, for I hope to remain a certain time with you, if the Lord permit.
8 But I remain in Ephesus until Pentecost.
9 For a great door is opened to me and an effectual , and  adversaries many.
10 Now if Timotheus come, see that he may be with you without fear; for he works the work of the Lord, even as I.
11 Let not therefore any one despise him; but set him forward in peace, that he may come to me; for I expect him with the brethren.
12 Now concerning the brother Apollos, I begged him much that he would go to you with the brethren; but it was not at all  will to go now; but he will come when he shall have good opportunity.
13 Be vigilant; stand fast in the faith; quit yourselves like men; be strong.
14 Let all things ye do be done in love.
15 But I beseech you, brethren, (ye know the house of Stephanas, that it is the first-fruits of Achaia, and they have devoted themselves to the saints for service,)
16 that *ye* should also be subject to such, and to every one joined in the work and labouring.
17 But I rejoice in the coming of Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus; because *they* have supplied what was lacking on your part.
18 For they have refreshed my spirit and yours: own therefore such.
19 The assemblies of Asia salute you. Aquila and Priscilla, with the assembly in their house, salute you much in  Lord.
20 All the brethren salute you. Salute one another with a holy kiss.
21 The salutation of  Paul with my own hand.
22 If any one love not the Lord [Jesus Christ] let him be Anathema Maranatha.
23 The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ  with you.
24 My love  with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen.