1 And Jehovah speaketh unto Moses, saying,
2 `Speak unto all the company of the sons of Israel, and thou hast said unto them, Ye are holy, for holy  I, Jehovah, your God.
3 `Each his mother and his father ye do fear, and My sabbaths ye do keep; I  Jehovah your God.
4 `Ye do not turn unto the idols, and a molten god ye do not make to yourselves; I  Jehovah your God.
5 `And when ye sacrifice a sacrifice of peace-offerings to Jehovah, at your pleasure ye do sacrifice it;
6 in the day of your sacrificing it is eaten, and on the morrow, and that which is left unto the third day with fire is burnt,
7 and if it be really eaten on the third day, it  an abomination, it is not pleasing,
8 and he who is eating it his iniquity doth bear, for the holy thing of Jehovah he hath polluted, and that person hath been cut off from his people.
9 `And in your reaping the harvest of your land ye do not completely reap the corner of thy field, and the gleaning of thy harvest thou dost not gather,
10 and thy vineyard thou dost not glean, even the omitted part of thy vineyard thou dost not gather, to the poor and to the sojourner thou dost leave them; I  Jehovah your God.
11 `Ye do not steal, nor feign, nor lie one against his fellow.
12 `And ye do not swear by My name to falsehood, or thou hast polluted the name of thy God; I  Jehovah.
13 `Thou dost not oppress thy neighbour, nor take plunder; the wages of the hireling doth not remain with thee till morning.
14 `Thou dost not revile the deaf; and before the blind thou dost not put a stumbling block; and thou hast been afraid of thy God; I  Jehovah.
15 `Ye do not do perversity in judgment; thou dost not lift up the face of the poor, nor honour the face of the great; in righteousness thou dost judge thy fellow.
16 `Thou dost not go slandering among thy people; thou dost not stand against the blood of thy neighbour; I  Jehovah.
17 `Thou dost not hate thy brother in thy heart; thou dost certainly reprove thy fellow, and not suffer sin on him.
18 `Thou dost not take vengeance, nor watch the sons of thy people; and thou hast had love to thy neighbour as thyself; I  Jehovah.
19 `My statutes ye do keep: thy cattle thou dost not cause to gender  diverse kinds; thy field thou dost not sow with diverse kinds, and a garment of diverse kinds, shaatnez, doth not go up upon thee.
20 `And when a man lieth with a woman with seed of copulation, and she a maid-servant, betrothed to a man, and not really ransomed, or freedom hath not been given to her, an investigation there is; they are not put to death, for she  not free.
21 `And he hath brought in his guilt-offering to Jehovah, unto the opening of the tent of meeting, a ram  a guilt-offering,
22 and the priest hath made atonement for him with the ram of the guilt-offering before Jehovah, for his sin which he hath sinned, and it hath been forgiven him because of his sin which he hath sinned.
23 `And when ye come in unto the land, and have planted all  of trees  food, then ye have reckoned as uncircumcised its fruit, three years it is to you uncircumcised, it is not eaten,
24 and in the fourth year all its fruit is holy -- praises for Jehovah.
25 And in the fifth year ye do eat its fruit -- to add to you its increase; I  Jehovah your God.
26 `Ye do not eat with the blood; ye do not enchant, nor observe clouds.
27 `Ye do not round the corner of your head, nor destroy the corner of thy beard.
28 `And a cutting for the soul ye do not put in your flesh; and a writing, a cross-mark, ye do not put on you; I  Jehovah.
29 `Thou dost not pollute thy daughter to cause her to go a-whoring, that the land go not a-whoring, and the land hath been full of wickedness.
30 `My sabbaths ye do keep, and My sanctuary ye do reverence; I  Jehovah.
31 `Ye do not turn unto those having familiar spirits; and unto wizards ye do not seek, for uncleanness by them; I  Jehovah your God.
32 `At the presence of grey hairs thou dost rise up, and thou hast honoured the presence of an old man, and hast been afraid of thy God; I  Jehovah.
33 `And when a sojourner sojourneth with thee in your land, thou dost not oppress him;
34 as a native among you is the sojourner to you who is sojourning with you, and thou hast had love to him as to thyself, for sojourners ye have been in the land of Egypt; I  Jehovah your God.
35 `Ye do not do perversity in judgment, in mete-yard, in weight, or in liquid measure;
36 righteous balances, righteous weights, a righteous ephah, and a righteous hin ye have; I  Jehovah your God, who hath brought you out from the land of Egypt;
37 and ye have observed all my statutes, and all my judgments, and have done them; I  Jehovah.'