1 And Jehovah speaketh unto Moses, saying,
2 `Speak unto the sons of Israel, and thou hast said unto them, Appointed seasons of Jehovah, which ye proclaim, holy convocations,  these: they  My appointed seasons:
3 six days is work done, and in the seventh day  a sabbath of rest, a holy convocation; ye do no work; it  a sabbath to Jehovah in all your dwellings.
4 `These  appointed seasons of Jehovah, holy convocations, which ye proclaim in their appointed seasons:
5 in the first month, on the fourteenth of the month, between the evenings,  the passover to Jehovah;
6 and on the fifteenth day of this month  the feast of unleavened things to Jehovah; seven days unleavened things ye do eat;
7 on the first day ye have a holy convocation, ye do no servile work;
8 and ye have brought near a fire-offering to Jehovah seven days; in the seventh day  a holy convocation; ye do no servile work.'
9 And Jehovah speaketh unto Moses, saying,
10 `Speak unto the sons of Israel, and thou hast said unto them, When ye come in unto the land which I am giving to you, and have reaped its harvest, and have brought in the sheaf, the beginning of your harvest unto the priest,
11 then he hath waved the sheaf before Jehovah for your acceptance; on the morrow of the sabbath doth the priest wave it.
12 `And ye have prepared in the day of your waving the sheaf a lamb, a perfect one, a son of a year, for a burnt-offering to Jehovah,
13 and its present two tenth deals of flour mixed with oil, a fire-offering to Jehovah, a sweet fragrance, and its drink-offering, wine, a fourth of the hin.
14 `And bread and roasted corn and full ears ye do not eat until this self-same day, until your bringing in the offering of your God -- a statute age-during to your generations, in all your dwellings.
15 `And ye have numbered to you from the morrow of the sabbath, from the day of your bringing in the sheaf of the wave-offering: they are seven perfect sabbaths;
16 unto the morrow of the seventh sabbath ye do number fifty days, and ye have brought near a new present to Jehovah;
17 out of your dwellings ye bring in bread of a wave-offering, two , of two tenth deals of flour they are,  yeast they are baken, first- to Jehovah.
18 `And ye have brought near, besides the bread, seven lambs, perfect ones, sons of a year, and one bullock, a son of the herd, and two rams; they are a burnt-offering to Jehovah, with their present and their libations, a fire-offering of sweet fragrance to Jehovah.
19 `And ye have prepared one kid of the goats for a sin-offering, and two lambs, sons of a year, for a sacrifice of peace-offerings,
20 and the priest hath waved them, besides the bread of the first- -- a wave-offering before Jehovah, besides the two lambs; they are holy to Jehovah for the priest;
21 and ye have proclaimed on this self-same day: a holy convocation is to you, ye do no servile work -- a statute age-during in all your dwellings, to your generations.
22 `And in your reaping the harvest of your land thou dost not complete the corner of thy field in thy reaping, and the gleaning of thy harvest thou dost not gather, to the poor and to the sojourner thou dost leave them; I Jehovah  your God.'
23 And Jehovah speaketh unto Moses, saying,
24 `Speak unto the sons of Israel, saying, In the seventh month, on the first of the month, ye have a sabbath, a memorial of shouting, a holy convocation;
25 ye do no servile work, and ye have brought near a fire-offering to Jehovah.'
26 And Jehovah speaketh unto Moses, saying,
27 `Only -- on the tenth of this seventh month is a day of atonements; ye have a holy convocation, and ye have humbled yourselves, and have brought near a fire-offering to Jehovah;
28 and ye do no work in this self-same day, for it is a day of atonements, to make atonement for you, before Jehovah your God.
29 `For any person who is not humbled in this self-same day hath even been cut off from his people;
30 and any person who doth any work in this self-same day I have even destroyed that person from the midst of his people;
31 ye do no work -- a statute age-during to your generations in all your dwellings.
32 It  a sabbath of rest to you, and ye have humbled yourselves in the ninth of the month at even; from evening till evening ye do keep your sabbath.'
33 And Jehovah speaketh unto Moses, saying,
34 `Speak unto the sons of Israel, saying, In the fifteenth day of this seventh month  a feast of booths seven days to Jehovah;
35 on the first day  a holy convocation, ye do no servile work,
36 seven days ye bring near a fire-offering to Jehovah, on the eighth day ye have a holy convocation, and ye have brought near a fire-offering to Jehovah; it  a restraint, ye do no servile work.
37 `These  appointed seasons of Jehovah, which ye proclaim holy convocations, to bring near a fire-offering to Jehovah, a burnt-offering, and a present, a sacrifice, and libations, a thing of a day in its day,
38 apart from the sabbaths of Jehovah, and apart from your gifts, and apart from all your vows, and apart from all your willing-offerings, which ye give to Jehovah.
39 `Only -- in the fifteenth day of the seventh month, in your gathering the increase of the land, ye do keep the feast of Jehovah seven days; on the first day  a sabbath, and on the eighth day a sabbath;
40 and ye have taken to yourselves on the first day the fruit of beautiful trees, branches of palms, and boughs of thick trees, and willows of a brook, and have rejoiced before Jehovah your God seven days.
41 `And ye have kept it a feast to Jehovah, seven days in a year -- a statute age-during to your generations; in the seventh month ye keep it a feast.
42 `In booths ye dwell seven days; all who are natives in Israel dwell in booths,
43 so that your generations do know that in booths I caused the sons of Israel to dwell; in my bringing them out of the land of Egypt; I, Jehovah,  your God.'
44 And Moses speaketh  the appointed seasons of Jehovah unto the sons of Israel.