1  Now muster troops, O daughter of troops; a siege he puts against us. They strike the ruler of Israel with a rod on the cheek.
2 But you, O Bethlehem Ephrathah, too small to be among the clans of Judah, from you one will go out for me, to be ruler in Israel; and his origins are from of old, from ancient days.
3 Therefore he will give them up until the time of she who is with child has given birth. And the rest of his brothers will return to the children of Israel.
4 And he will stand and shepherd his flock in the strength of Yahweh, in the majesty of the name of Yahweh his God. And they will live, for now he will be great unto the ends of the earth.
5 And this one will be peace. As for the Assyrian, when he comes into our land and when he treads on our fortresses, then we will raise up against him seven shepherds and eight leaders of men.
6 And they will shepherd the land of Assyria with the sword, and the land of Nimrod at its entrances. And he will rescue us from the Assyrian when he comes into our land, and when they tread upon our border.
7 And the remnant of Jacob will be in the midst of many nations, like dew from Yahweh, like showers upon the grass which does not wait for a man, nor delays for the children of humankind.
8 And the remnant of Jacob will be among the nations, in the midst of many peoples, like a lion among the wild animals of the forest, like a young lion among the herds of sheep which, when it passes through and treads down and tears in pieces, there is none who can deliver.
9 Your hand will be lifted high over your enemies, and all your foes will be cut off.
10 "And it will happen that in that day," declares Yahweh, "then I will cut off your horses from among you, and I will destroy your chariots.
11 And I will cut off the cities of your land, and I will demolish all your fortifications.
12 And I will cut off sorceries from your hand, and you will not have soothsayers.
13 And I will cut off your idols and your stone pillars from among you, and you will no longer bow down to the work of your hands.
14 And I will uproot your Asherahs from among you, and I will destroy your cities.
15 And in anger and in wrath I will execute vengeance on the nations who did not obey."