1 "Look, my eye has seen everything; my ear has heard and has understood it.
2 What you know, I myself also know— I am not more inferior than you.
3 But I would speak to Shaddai, and I desire to argue with God.
4 "But you whitewash with lies; all of you are worthless healers.
5 O that you would keep completely silent, and that it would become wisdom for you.
6 Please hear my argument, and listen attentively to the pleadings of my lips.
7 "Will you speak falsely for God? And will you speak deceitfully for him?
8 Will you show partiality for him? Or do you want to plead God's case?
9 Will it be well, if he examines you? Or can you deceive him like deceiving a human being?
10 "Surely he will rebuke you if you show partiality in secret.
11 Will not his majesty terrify you, and his dread fall upon you?
12 Your maxims are proverbs of ashes; your defenses are defenses of clay.
13 "Let me have silence, and I myself will speak, and let come over me whatever may.
14 Why should I take my flesh in my teeth and put my life in my hand?
15 Look, though he kill me, I will hope in him; however, I will defend my ways before him.
16 Moreover, this is salvation to me, that the godless would not come before him.
17 "Listen carefully to my words, and let my exposition be in your ears.
18 Please look, I have prepared my case; I know that I myself will be vindicated.
19 Who is he who will contend with me? For then I would be silent, and I would pass away.
20 "Only you must not do these two things to me; then I will not hide from your face:
21 withdraw your hand from me, and let not your dread terrify me.
22 Then call, and I myself will answer; or let me speak, then reply to me.
23 "How many are my iniquities and sins? Make known to me my transgression and my sin.
24 Why do you hide your face and count me as your enemy?
25 Will you terrify a blown leaf? And will you pursue dry stubble?
26 "Indeed, you write bitter things against me, and you make me reap the iniquities of my childhood.
27 And you put my feet in the block, and you watch all my paths; you carve a mark on the soles of my feet.
28 And he himself wastes away like something rotten, like a garment that the moth has eaten.