1 Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said,
2 "Can a man be of use to God? Yes, can the wise be of use to him?
3 Is it a pleasure to Shaddai if you are righteous, or a gain if you make your ways blameless?
4 Does he reprove you because of your reverence or enter into judgment with you?
5 Is not your wickedness great, and there is no end to your iniquities?
6 "Indeed, you have required a pledge from your family for nothing, and you have stripped off the clothes of the naked.
7 You have given no water for the weary to drink, and you withheld food from the hungry.
8 And the land belongs to the man of power, and the favored lives in it.
9 You have sent widows away empty-handed, and the arms of orphans were crushed.
10 Therefore trapping nets are all around you, and panic suddenly terrifies you,
11 or it is so dark you cannot see, and a flood of water covers you.
12 "Is not God in the height of the heavens? But see how lofty are the highest stars.
13 And you ask, 'What does God know? Can he judge through deep gloom?
14 Thick clouds are a covering for him, so that he does not see; and he walks about on the dome of heaven.'
15 Will you keep to the way of old that the people of mischief have trod,
16 who were snatched away before their time, whose foundation was washed away by a current?
17 Those who said to God, 'Turn away from us,' and 'What can Shaddai do to us?'
18 Yet he himself filled up their houses with good things, but the schemes of the wicked are repugnant to me.
19 The righteous see, and they rejoice, but the innocent one mocks at them.
20 Surely our foe perishes, and fire has consumed their remainder.
21 "Please reconcile yourself with him, and be at peace; in this way, good will come to you.
22 Please receive instruction from his mouth, and place his words in your heart.
23 If you return to Shaddai, you will be restored; if you remove wickedness from your tent,
24 and if you put gold ore in the dust, and the gold of Ophir in the rock of wadis,
25 then Shaddai will be your gold ore and your precious silver.
26 Indeed, then you will delight yourself in Shaddai, and you will expect that God will be good to you.
27 You will pray to him, and he will hear you, and you will pay your vows.
28 And you will decide on a matter, and it will be established for you, and light will shine on your ways.
29 When they are humiliated, you say, 'It is pride,' for he saves the humble.
30 He will deliver the guilty, and he will escape because of the cleanness of your hands."