1 "About this also my heart trembles, and it leaps from its place.
2 Listen carefully to his voice's thunder and the rumbling that goes out from his mouth.
3 He lets it loose under all the heavens, and his lightning to the earth's corners.
4 After it, his voice roars; it thunders with his majestic voice, and he does not restrain it when his voice is heard.
5 "God thunders with his voice in marvelous ways; he does great things, and we cannot comprehend.
6 For to the snow he says, 'Fall on the earth'; and the shower of rain, his heavy shower of rain—
7 he stops all human beings from working so that everyone whom he has made may know it.
8 Then the animal goes into its den, and it remains in its den.
9 "The storm wind comes from its chamber and cold from the north wind.
10 By God's breath, ice is given, and the broad waters are frozen.
11 Also, he loads down thick clouds with moisture; his lightning scatters the clouds.
12 And they turn around by his guidance to accomplish all that he has commanded them on the face of the habitable world.
13 Whether as correction or for his land, or as loyal love, he lets it happen.
14 "Hear this, Job; stand still and consider carefully God's wondrous works.
15 Do you know how God commands them and how he causes his cloud's lightning to shine?
16 Do you know about the hovering of the clouds, the marvelous works of the one with perfect knowledge?
17 You whose garments are hot, when the earth is being still because of the south wind,
18 with him can you spread out the skies, hard as a molten mirror?
19 "Teach us what we should say to him; we cannot draw up our case because of the presence of darkness.
20 Should he be told that I want to speak? Or did a man say that he would be communicated with?
21 So then, they do not look at the light when it is bright in the skies, when the wind has passed and has cleansed them.
22 From the north comes gold— awesome majesty is around God.
23 As for Shaddai, we cannot attain him; he is exalted in power, and he does not oppress justice and abundant righteousness.
24 Therefore people revered him; he does not regard any who think that they are wise."