1 Then these three men ceased from answering Job because he was righteous in his own eyes. 
2 So Elihu the son of Barakel the Buzite, from the clan of Ram, became angry. He became angry at Job because he justified himself rather than God, 
3 and he became angry at his three friends because they had not found an answer, and they had declared Job guilty. 
4 Thus Elihu had waited for Job to speak because they were older than he. 
5 When Elihu saw that there was no answer in the mouth of the three men, he became angry. 
6 Then Elihu the son of Barakel the Buzite spoke up and said, "I am young, but you are old; therefore I feared and became afraid of explaining my knowledge to you.
7 I thought, 'Let days speak, and let many years teach wisdom.'
8 "Truly, it is a spirit in a human being, and the breath of Shaddai teaches them.
9 It is not the aged who are wise, or it is not the elders who understand justice.
10 Therefore I say, 'Listen to me; let me also declare my knowledge myself.'
11 "Look, I waited for your words; I listened for your insight, until you searched out what to say.
12 And I directed my attention to you; and, look, there is no one for Job who refuted, answering his words among you.
13 So do not say, 'We have found wisdom; let God refute him, not a man.'
14 But he did not direct his words to me, and I will not answer him with your words.
15 "They are dismayed; they no longer answer; they have nothing to say.
16 And I have waited because they do not speak, because they stand there and no longer answer.
17 I myself will answer my share also; I myself will declare my knowledge also,
18 for I am full of words; the spirit within me urges me.
19 "Look, my internal organs are like unopened wine, like new wineskins it is ready to burst open.
20 Let me speak that I may find relief; let me open my lips, and let me answer.
21 Please let me not show partiality to anyone, and let me not show flattery to human beings,
22 for I do not know how to flatter, else my Maker would soon put an end to me.