1 "Do you know the time when the goats of the rocks give birth? Do you observe the doe deer's giving birth?
2 Can you number the months they fulfill, and do you know the time of its giving birth?
3 When they crouch, they bring forth their young ones; they get rid of their labor pains.
4 Their young ones grow strong; they grow up in the open; they go forth and do not return to them.
5 "Who has sent forth the wild ass free? And who has released the wild donkey's bonds,
6 to which I have given the wilderness as its house and the salt flat as its dwelling place?
7 It scorns the city's turmoil; it does not hear the driver's shouts.
8 It explores the mountains as its pasture and searches after every kind of green plant.
9 "Is the wild ox willing to serve you, or will he spend the night at your feeding trough?
10 Can you tie the wild ox with its rope to a furrow, or will it harrow the valleys after you?
11 Can you trust it because its strength is great, or will you hand your labor over to it?
12 Can you rely on it that it will return your grain and that it will gather it to your threshing floor?
13 "The wings of the female ostrich flap— are they the pinions of the stork or the falcon?
14 Indeed, it leaves its eggs to the earth, and it lets them be warmed on the ground,
15 and it forgets that a foot might crush an egg, and a wild animal might trample it.
16 It deals cruelly with its young ones, as if they were not its own, as if without fear that its labor were in vain,
17 because God made it forget wisdom, and he did not give it a share in understanding.
18 When it spreads its wings aloft, it laughs at the horse and its rider.
19 "Do you give power to the horse? Do you clothe its neck with a mane?
20 Do you make it leap like the locust? The majesty of its snorting is terrifying.
21 They paw in the valley, and it exults with strength; it goes out to meet the battle.
22 It laughs at danger and is not dismayed, and it does not turn back from before the sword.
23 Upon it the quiver rattles along with the flash of the spear and the short sword.
24 With roar and rage it races over the ground, and it cannot stand still at the sound of the horn.
25 Whenever a horn sounds, it says, 'Aha!' And it smells the battle from a distance— the thunder of the commanders and the war cry.
26 "Does the hawk soar by your wisdom? Does it spread its wings to the south?
27 Or does the eagle fly high at your command and construct its nest high?
28 It lives on the rock and spends the night on the rock point and the mountain stronghold.
29 From there it spies out the prey; its eyes look from far away.
30 And its young ones lick blood greedily, and where the dead carcasses are, there they are."