1 Then Elihu continued and said,
2 "Bear with me a little longer, and I will explain, for I still have something to say on God's behalf.
3 I will bring my knowledge from far away, and I will ascribe righteousness to my maker,
4 for truly my words are not falsehood; one who has perfect knowledge is with you.
5 Look, God is mighty but does not despise anyone; he is mighty and good in understanding.
6 He does not keep the wicked alive but grants justice to the afflicted.
7 He does not withdraw his eyes from the righteous, but he sets them forever with kings on the throne, and they are exalted.
8 "And if they are tied up with fetters, if they are caught in the cords of misery,
9 then he declares their work to them, and their transgressions, that they are behaving arrogantly.
10 So he opens their ear to the discipline, and he commands that they return from mischief.
11 If they listen and serve him, they complete their days in prosperity and their years in pleasantness.
12 But if they do not listen, they perish by the sword, and they pass away without knowledge.
13 And the godless of heart cherish anger; they do not cry for help when he binds them.
14 They die in their youth, and their life ends among the male shrine prostitutes.
15 He delivers the afflicted by his misery, and he opens their ears by the adversity.
16 And what's more, he allured you out of distress into a broad place, where in place of it was no constraint; and what was set on your table is full of fatness.
17 But you are obsessed with the judgment of the wicked; judgment and justice take hold of you.
18 Yes, it is wrath, so that it will not incite you into mockery; and do not let the ransom's greatness turn you aside.
19 Will your cry for help sustain you without distress, or all the efforts of your strength?
20 You must not long for the night, to cut off people in their place.
21 Take care, you must not turn to mischief, for because of this you have been tried by misery.
22 "Look, God is exalted in his power; who is a teacher like him?
23 Who has prescribed his way for him? Or who says, 'You have done wrong'?
24 Remember that you should extol his work, of which people have sung.
25 All human beings have looked on it; everyone watches from afar.
26 "Look, God is exalted, and we do not know him; the number of his years is unsearchable.
27 Indeed, he draws up the drops of water; he distills the rain into its mist,
28 which the clouds pour down; they shower abundantly on human beings.
29 "Moreover, can anyone understand the spreading of clouds, the thundering of his dwelling place?
30 Look, he scatters his lightning around him, and he covers the roots of the sea.
31 Indeed, he judges people by them; he gives food in abundance.
32 He covers his hands with lightning, and he commands it the place at which to strike.
33 His thundering tells about him; the livestock also tell concerning what rises.