1 Then Job answered Yahweh and said,
2 "I know that you can do all things, and any scheme from you will not be thwarted.
3 'Who is this darkening counsel without knowledge?' Therefore I uttered, but I did not understand; things too wonderful for me, but I did not know.
4 'Hear and I will speak; I will question you, then inform me.'
5 By the ear's hearing I heard of you, but now my eye has seen you.
6 Therefore I despise myself and repent in dust and ashes."
7 And then after Yahweh spoke these words to Job, Yahweh said to Eliphaz the Temanite, "My wrath has been kindled against you and against the two of your friends, for you have not spoken to me what is right as my servant Job has. 
8 So then, take for yourselves seven bulls and seven rams, and go to my servant Job and offer a burnt offering for yourselves. And my servant Job will pray for you, for I will certainly accept his prayer, so that it will not be done with you according to your folly, for you have not spoken to me what is right as my servant Job has."
9 So Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the Naamathite went and did just as Yahweh had told them, and Yahweh accepted Job's prayer.
10 Then Yahweh returned Job's fortune when he prayed to him on behalf of his friends. Thus Yahweh increased all that Job had twice as much as before. 
11 So all his brothers and all his sisters and all those who had known him before came to him, and they ate bread with him in his house and showed sympathy to him and comforted him for all the disaster that Yahweh had brought upon him. Then each one gave to him one piece of money, and each one gave to him one ornamental ring of gold.
12 So Yahweh blessed Job's latter days more than his beginning. Thus he had fourteen thousand sheep and goats and six thousand camels and a thousand pair of oxen and a thousand female donkeys. 
13 And he had seven sons and three daughters. 
14 And he called the name of the first Jemimah and the name of the second Keziah and the name of the third Qeren-Happuk. 
15 And beautiful women were not found in all the land like Job's daughters, and their father gave to them an inheritance in the midst of their brothers.
16 And Job lived after this one hundred and forty years, and he saw his sons and his grandsons for four generations. 
17 Then Job died old and full of days.