1 And this  the blessing  which Moses the man of God blessed the sons of Israel before his death,
2 and he saith: -- `Jehovah from Sinai hath come, And hath risen from Seir for them; He hath shone from mount Paran, And hath come  myriads of holy ones; At His right hand  springs for them.
3 Also He  loving the peoples; All His holy ones  in thy hand, And they -- they sat down at thy foot,  He lifteth up at thy words.
4 A law hath Moses commanded us, A possession of the assembly of Jacob.
5 And he is in Jeshurun king, In the heads of the people gathering together, The tribes of Israel!
6 Let Reuben live, and not die, And let his men be a number.
7 And this  for Judah; and he saith: -- Hear, O Jehovah, the voice of Judah, And unto his people do Thou bring him in; His hand hath striven for him, And an help from his adversaries art Thou.
8 And of Levi he said: -- Thy Thummim and thy Urim  for thy pious one, Whom Thou hast tried in Massah, Thou dost strive with Him at the waters of Meribah;
9 Who is saying of his father and his mother, I have not seen him; And his brethren he hath not discerned, And his sons he hath not known; For they have observed Thy saying, And Thy covenant they keep.
10 They teach Thy judgments to Jacob, And Thy law to Israel; They put perfume in Thy nose, And whole burnt-offering on Thine altar.
11 Bless, O Jehovah, his strength, And the work of his hands Thou acceptest, Smite the loins of his withstanders, And of those hating him -- that they rise not!
12 Of Benjamin he said: -- The beloved of Jehovah doth tabernacle confidently by him, Covering him over all the day; Yea, between his shoulders He doth tabernacle.
13 And of Joseph he said: -- Blessed of Jehovah  his land, By precious things of the heavens, By dew, and by the deep crouching beneath,
14 And by precious things -- fruits of the sun, And by precious things -- cast forth by the moons,
15 And by chief things -- of the ancient mountains, And by precious things -- of the age-during heights,
16 And by precious things -- of earth and its fulness, And the good pleasure Of Him who is dwelling in the bush, -- Let it come for the head of Joseph, And for the crown of him Who is separate from his brethren.
17 His honour  a firstling of his ox, And his horns  horns of a reem; By them peoples he doth push together To the ends of earth; And they  the myriads of Ephraim, And they  the thousands of Manasseh.
18 And of Zebulun he said: -- Rejoice, O Zebulun, in thy going out, And, O Issachar, in thy tents;
19 Peoples  the mountain they call, There they sacrifice righteous sacrifices; For the abundance of the seas they suck, And hidden things hidden in the sand.
20 And of Gad he said: -- Blessed of the Enlarger  Gad, As a lioness he doth tabernacle, And hath torn the arm -- also the crown!
21 And he provideth the first part for himself, For there the portion of the lawgiver is covered, And he cometh  the heads of the people; The righteousness of Jehovah he hath done, And His judgments with Israel.
22 And of Dan he said: -- Dan  a lion's whelp; he doth leap from Bashan.
23 And of Naphtali he said: -- O Naphtali, satisfied with pleasure, And full of the blessing of Jehovah, West and south possess thou.
24 And of Asher he said: -- Blessed with sons  Asher, Let him be accepted by his brethren, And dipping in oil his foot.
25 Iron and brass  thy shoes, And as thy days -- thy strength.
26 There is none like the God of Jeshurun, Riding the heavens in thy help, And in His excellency the skies.
27 A habitation  the eternal God, And beneath  arms age-during. And He casteth out from thy presence the enemy, and saith, `Destroy!'
28 And Israel doth tabernacle  confidence alone; The eye of Jacob  unto a land of corn and wine; Also His heavens drop down dew.
29 O thy happiness, O Israel! who is like thee? A people saved by Jehovah, The shield of thy help, And He who  the sword of thine excellency: And thine enemies are subdued for thee, And thou on their high places dost tread.'