1 But I commend to you Phoebe, our sister, who is minister of the assembly which is in Cenchrea;
2 that ye may receive her in  Lord worthily of saints, and that ye may assist her in whatever matter she has need of you; for *she* also has been a helper of many, and of myself.
3 Salute Prisca and Aquila, my fellow-workmen in Christ Jesus,
4 (who for my life staked their own neck; to whom not *I* only am thankful, but also all the assemblies of the nations,)
5 and the assembly at their house. Salute Epaenetus, my beloved, who is  first-fruits of Asia for Christ.
6 Salute Maria, who laboured much for you.
7 Salute Andronicus and Junias, my kinsmen and fellow-captives, who are of note among the apostles; who were also in Christ before me.
8 Salute Amplias, my beloved in the Lord.
9 Salute Urbanus, our fellow-workman in Christ, and Stachys, my beloved.
10 Salute Apelles, approved in Christ. Salute those who belong to Aristobulus.
11 Salute Herodion, my kinsman. Salute those who belong to Narcissus, who are in  Lord.
12 Salute Tryphaena and Tryphosa, who labour in  Lord. Salute Persis, the beloved, who has laboured much in  Lord.
13 Salute Rufus, chosen in  Lord; and his mother and mine.
14 Salute Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas, and the brethren with them.
15 Salute Philologus, and Julia, Nereus, and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints with them.
16 Salute one another with a holy kiss. All the assemblies of Christ salute you.
17 But I beseech you, brethren, to consider those who create divisions and occasions of falling, contrary to the doctrine which *ye* have learnt, and turn away from them.
18 For such serve not our Lord Christ, but their own belly, and by good words and fair speeches deceive the hearts of the unsuspecting.
19 For your obedience has reached to all. I rejoice therefore as it regards you; but I wish you to be wise  to that which is good, and simple  to evil.
20 But the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ  with you.
21 Timotheus, my fellow-workman, and Lucius, and Jason, and Sosipater, my kinsmen, salute you.
22 I Tertius, who have written this epistle, salute you in  Lord.
23 Gaius, my host and of the whole assembly, salutes you. Erastus, the steward of the city, salutes you, and the brother Quartus.
24 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ  with you all. Amen.
25 Now to him that is able to establish you, according to my glad tidings and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to  revelation of  mystery, as to which silence has been kept in  times of the ages,
26 but  has now been made manifest, and by prophetic scriptures, according to commandment of the eternal God, made known for obedience of faith to all the nations—
27  only wise God, through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory for ever. Amen.