1 [There is] then now no condemnation to those in Christ Jesus.
2 For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set me free from the law of sin and of death.
3 For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God, having sent his own Son, in likeness of flesh of sin, and for sin, has condemned sin in the flesh,
4 in order that the righteous requirement of the law should be fulfilled in us, who do not walk according to flesh but according to Spirit.
5 For they that are according to flesh mind the things of the flesh; and they that are according to Spirit, the things of the Spirit.
6 For the mind of the flesh  death; but the mind of the Spirit life and peace.
7 Because the mind of the flesh is enmity against God: for it is not subject to the law of God; for neither indeed can it be:
8 and they that are in flesh cannot please God.
9 But *ye* are not in flesh but in Spirit, if indeed God's Spirit dwell in you; but if any one has not  Spirit of Christ *he* is not of him:
10 but if Christ be in you, the body is dead on account of sin, but the Spirit life on account of righteousness.
11 But if the Spirit of him that has raised up Jesus from among  dead dwell in you, he that has raised up Christ from among  dead shall quicken your mortal bodies also on account of his Spirit which dwells in you.
12 So then, brethren, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live according to flesh;
13 for if ye live according to flesh, ye are about to die; but if, by the Spirit, ye put to death the deeds of the body, ye shall live:
14 for as many as are led by  Spirit of God, *these* are sons of God.
15 For ye have not received a spirit of bondage again for fear, but ye have received a spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba, Father.
16 The Spirit itself bears witness with our spirit, that we are children of God.
17 And if children, heirs also: heirs of God, and Christ's joint heirs; if indeed we suffer with , that we may also be glorified with .
18 For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy [to be compared] with the coming glory to be revealed to us.
19 For the anxious looking out of the creature expects the revelation of the sons of God:
20 for the creature has been made subject to vanity, not of its will, but by reason of him who has subjected [the same], in hope
21 that the creature itself also shall be set free from the bondage of corruption into the liberty of the glory of the children of God.
22 For we know that the whole creation groans together and travails in pain together until now.
23 And not only , but even *we* ourselves, who have the first-fruits of the Spirit, we also ourselves groan in ourselves, awaiting adoption, [that is] the redemption of our body.
24 For we have been saved in hope; but hope seen is not hope; for what any one sees, why does he also hope?
25 But if what we see not we hope, we expect in patience.
26 And in like manner the Spirit joins also its help to our weakness; for we do not know what we should pray for as is fitting, but the Spirit itself makes intercession with groanings which cannot be uttered.
27 But he who searches the hearts knows what  the mind of the Spirit, because he intercedes for saints according to God.
28 But we *do* know that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to purpose.
29 Because whom he has foreknown, he has also predestinated [to be] conformed to the image of his Son, so that he should be  firstborn among many brethren.
30 But whom he has predestinated, these also he has called; and whom he has called, these also he has justified; but whom he has justified, these also he has glorified.
31 What shall we then say to these things? If God  for us, who against us?
32 He who, yea, has not spared his own Son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not also with him grant us all things?
33 Who shall bring an accusation against God's elect? [It is] God who justifies:
34 who is he that condemns? [It is] Christ who has died, but rather has been  raised up; who is also at the right hand of God; who also intercedes for us.
35 Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? tribulation or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword?
36 According as it is written, For thy sake we are put to death all the day long; we have been reckoned as sheep for slaughter.
37 But in all these things we more than conquer through him that has loved us.
38 For I am persuaded that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers,
39 nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which  in Christ Jesus our Lord.