1 Therefore having been justified on the principle of faith, we have peace towards God through our Lord Jesus Christ;
2 by whom we have also access by faith into this favour in which we stand, and we boast in hope of the glory of God.
3 And not only , but we also boast in tribulations, knowing that tribulation works endurance;
4 and endurance, experience; and experience, hope;
5 and hope does not make ashamed, because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by  Holy Spirit which has been given to us:
6 for we being still without strength, in  due time Christ has died for  ungodly.
7 For scarcely for  just  will one die, for perhaps for  good  some one might also dare to die;
8 but God commends *his* love to us, in that, we being still sinners, Christ has died for us.
9 Much rather therefore, having been now justified in [the power of] his blood, we shall be saved by him from wrath.
10 For if, being enemies, we have been reconciled to God through the death of his Son, much rather, having been reconciled, we shall be saved in [the power of] his life.
11 And not only , but [we are] making our boast in God, through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom now we have received the reconciliation.
12 For this , even as by one man sin entered into the world, and by sin death; and thus death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned:
13 (for until law sin was in  world; but sin is not put to account when there is no law;
14 but death reigned from Adam until Moses, even upon those who had not sinned in the likeness of Adam's transgression, who is  figure of him to come.
15 But  not the act of favour  as the offence? For if by the offence of one the many have died, much rather has the grace of God, and the free gift in grace, which  by the one man Jesus Christ, abounded unto the many.
16 And  not as by one that has sinned  the gift? For the judgment  of one to condemnation, but the act of favour, of many offences unto justification.
17 For if by the offence of the one death reigned by the one, much rather shall those who receive the abundance of grace, and of the free gift of righteousness, reign in life by the one Jesus Christ:)
18 so then as [it was] by one offence towards all men to condemnation, so by one righteousness towards all men for justification of life.
19 For as indeed by the disobedience of the one man the many have been constituted sinners, so also by the obedience of the one the many will be constituted righteous.
20 But law came in, in order that the offence might abound; but where sin abounded grace has overabounded,
21 in order that, even as sin has reigned in [the power of] death, so also grace might reign through righteousness to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.