1 Now in the eighteenth year of the reign of Jeroboam the son of Nabat, Abiam reigned over Juda.
2 He reigned three years in Jerusalem: the name of his mother was Maacha the daughter of Abessalom.
3 And he walked in all the sins of his father, which he had done before him: and his heart was not perfect with the Lord his God, as was the heart of David his father.
4 But for David's sake the Lord his God gave him a lamp in Jerusalem, to set up his son after him, and to establish Jerusalem:
5 Because David had done that which was right in the eyes of the Lord, and had not turned aside from any thing that he commanded him, all the days of his life, except the matter of Urias the Hethite.
6 But there was war between Roboam and Jeroboam all the time of his life.
7 And the rest of the words of Abiam, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Juda? And there was war between Abiam and Jeroboam.
8 And Abiam slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David, and Asa his son reigned in his stead.
9 So in the twentieth year of Jeroboam king of Israel, reigned Asa king of Juda,
10 And he reigned one and forty years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Maacha, the daughter of Abessalom.
11 And Asa did that which was right in the sight of the Lord, as did David his father:
12 And he took away the effeminate out of the land, and he removed all the filth of the idols, which his fathers had made.
13 Moreover he also removed his mother Maacha, from being the princess in the sacrifices of Priapus, and in the grove which she had consecrated to him: and he destroyed her den, and broke in pieces the filthy idol, and burnt it by the torrent Cedron:
14 But the high places he did not take away. Nevertheless the heart of Asa was perfect with the Lord all his days:
15 And he brought in the things which his father had dedicated, and he had vowed, into the house of the Lord, silver and gold, and vessels.
16 And there was war between Asa, and Baasa king of Israel all their days.
17 And Baasa king of Israel went up against Juda, and built Rama, that no man might go out or come in, of the side of Asa king of Juda.
18 Then Asa took all the silver and gold that remained in the treasures of the house of the Lord, and in the treasures of the king's house, and delivered it into the hands of his servants: and sent them to Benadad son of Tabremon the son of Hezion, king of Syria, who dwelt in Damascus, saying:
19 There is a league between me and thee, and between my father and thy father: therefore I have sent thee presents of silver and gold: and I desire thee to come, and break thy league with Baasa king of Israel, that he may depart from me.
20 Benadad hearkening to king Asa, sent the captains of his army against the cities of Israel, and they smote Ahion, and Dan, and Abeldomum Maacha, and all Cenneroth, that is all the land of Nephtali.
21 And when Baasa had heard this, he left off building Rama, and returned into Thersa.
22 But king Asa sent word into all Juda, saying: Let no man be excused: and they took away the stones from Rama, and the timber thereof wherewith Baasa had been building, and with them Asa built Gabaa of Benjamin, and Maspha.
23 But the rest of all the acts of Asa, and all his strength, and all that he did and the cities that he built, are they not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Juda? But in the time of his old age he was diseased in his feet.
24 And he slept with his fathers, and was buried with them in the city of David his father. And Josaphat his son reigned in his place.
25 But Nadab the son of Jeroboam reigned over Israel the second year of Asa king of Juda: and he reigned over Israel two years.
26 And he did evil in the sight of the Lord, and walked in the ways of his father, and in his sins, wherewith he made Israel to sin.
27 And Baasa the son of Ahias of the house of Issachar, conspired against him, and slew him in Gebbethon, which is a city of the Philistines: for Nadab and all Israel besieged Gebbethon.
28 So Baasa slew him in the third year of Asa king of Juda, and reigned in his place.
29 And when he was king he cut off all the house of Jeroboam: he left not so much as one soul of his seed, till he had utterly destroyed him, according to the word of the Lord, which he had spoken in the hand of Ahias the Silonite:
30 Because of the sin of Jeroboam, which he had sinned, and wherewith he had made Israel to sin, and for the offence, wherewith he provoked the Lord the God of Israel.
31 But the rest of the acts of Nadab, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
32 And there was war between Asa and Baasa the king of Israel all their days.
33 In the third year of Asa king of Juda, Baasa the son of Ahias reigned over all Israel, in Thersa, four and twenty years.
34 And he did evil before the Lord, and walked in the ways of Jeroboam, and in his sins, wherewith he made Israel to sin.