1 And Solomon the son of David strengthened himself concerning his kingdom, and Yahweh his God was with him and made him exceedingly great. 
2 And Solomon spoke to all Israel, to the commanders of thousands and of hundreds, and to the judges, and to all the leaders for all Israel, the heads of the families. 
3 And Solomon and the whole assembly with him went to the high place that was at Gibeon, for the tent of assembly of God that Moses the servant of Yahweh had made in the desert was there. 
4 (But the ark of God David had brought up from Kiriath-Jearim to the place David had prepared for it, for David had pitched a tent for it in Jerusalem.) 
5 And the bronze altar that Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, had made was there before the tabernacle of Yahweh. And Solomon and the assembly sought it out. 
6 And Solomon went up there to the bronze altar before Yahweh, which was at the tent of assembly, and he offered upon it a thousand burnt offerings.
7 On that night God appeared to Solomon and said to him, "Ask what I shall give to you." 
8 Then Solomon said to God, "You yourself have shown steadfast loyal love to David my father and have made me king in his place. 
9 Now, O Yahweh God, let your word to David my father be fulfilled, for you yourself have made me king over a people as numerous as the dust of the earth. 
10 Now, give to me wisdom and knowledge that I may go out and come in before this people, for who can judge this, your great people?"
11 Then God said to Solomon, "Because this was with your heart and you did not ask for wealth, possessions, honor, and the lives of your enemies, and also did not ask for long life, but have asked for wisdom and knowledge that you might judge my people over whom I have made you king, 
12 wisdom and knowledge is given to you. And I will also give to you wealth, possessions, and honor, the like of which was not had by the kings who were before you, nor will there be the like after you." 
13 So Solomon went from the high place which was at Gibeon to Jerusalem before the tent of assembly. And he reigned over Israel.
14 And Solomon gathered chariots and horsemen. And he had one thousand four hundred chariots and twelve thousand horsemen, and he placed them in the chariot cities and with the king in Jerusalem. 
15 And the king made silver and gold in Jerusalem like the stones. And he made cedar as abundant as the sycamore fig trees that were in the Shephelah. 
16 And Solomon's horses were imported from Egypt and from Kue. The traders of the king received them from Kue at a price. 
17 They went up and exported a chariot from Egypt for six hundred shekels of silver and a horse for one hundred and fifty shekels. And these were likewise exported to all the kings of the Hittites and the kings of Aram.