1  And Abijah slept with his ancestors, and they buried him in the city of David. And Asa his son became king in his place. In his days the land was at rest ten years. 
2 Asa did that which was good and right in the eyes of Yahweh his God. 
3 He removed the foreign altars and high places, broke down the stone pillars, and cut down the Asherahs. 
4 And he commanded Judah to seek Yahweh, the God of their ancestors, and to keep the law and the commandment. 
5 And he removed the high places and the incense stands from all the cities of Judah, and the kingdom had rest under him. 
6 And he built fortified cities in Judah, for the land was at rest. Under him there was no war in those years, for Yahweh had given rest to him. 
7 And he said to Judah, "Let us build these cities and surround them with walls, towers, gates, and bars while the land is before us, because we have sought Yahweh our God. We have sought and he has given rest to us on every side." So they built and had success. 
8 And Asa had an army of three hundred thousand from Judah, bearing shields and spears, and two hundred and eighty thousand from Benjamin who carried shields and drew bows. All of these were mighty warriors of strength.
9 Zerah the Cushite came out against them with an army of a thousand thousands and three hundred chariots. And he came to Mareshah. 
10 And Asa went out before him, and a battle was put in order in the valley of Zepah at Mareshah.
11 Then Asa cried out to Yahweh his God. And he said, "O Yahweh, there is none with you to help between the great and the powerless. Help us, O Yahweh our God, for we rely upon you, and in your name we have come against this multitude. O Yahweh, you are our God! Let no man prevail against you!"
12 So Yahweh defeated the Cushites before Asa and before Judah, and the Cushites fled. 
13 Then Asa and the army with him pursued them to Gerar. And many from the Cushites fell, for they had no deliverance, for they were shattered before Yahweh and before his army. And they carried away much war booty. 
14 And they struck all the cities around Gerar, for the fear of Yahweh was upon them. And they plundered all the cities, for there was much plunder in them. 
15 And they also struck the tents of the herdsmen and carried away many sheep and camels. Then they returned to Jerusalem.