1 And he made an altar of bronze, twenty cubits was its length, and twenty cubits was its width, and ten cubits was its height. 
2 Then he made the sea of molten metal, from brim to brim it was ten cubits, completely round. And it was five cubits in height, and its circumference measured thirty cubits. 
3 Under it were figures of oxen all around it, ten cubits high, encircling the sea all around. The oxen were in two rows cast as one piece with it. 
4 It was standing upon twelve oxen, three facing north, and three facing west, and three facing south, and three facing east. The sea was set upon them from above, and all their hindquarters faced inward. 
5 And its thickness was a handbreadth, and its brim was like the working of the lip of a cup, the blossom of a lily. And it held three thousand baths. 
6 And he made ten basins. And he set five on the south and five on the north in which to wash; they washed off the work of the burnt offering in them, but the sea was for the priests to wash therein. 
7 And he made ten golden lampstands according to their custom, and he set them in the temple, five on the south and five on the north. 
8 And he made ten tables and placed them in the temple, five on the south and five on the north. And he made a hundred drinking bowls of gold. 
9 And he made the courtyard of the priests and the great outer courtyard and the doors for the outer court. And he overlaid their doors with bronze. 
10 And he set the sea at the southeast corner of the temple. 
11 And Huram made the pots, the shovels, and the drinking bowls. So Hiram finished making the work that he made on the house of God for King Solomon: 
12 the two columns, the bowls, and the two capitals on top of the columns, and the two latticeworks to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were on top of the columns, 
13 and the four hundred pomegranates for the two latticeworks, two rows of pomegranates for the latticework, to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were before the columns. 
14 And he made the water carts, and he made the basins on the water carts, 
15 and the one sea and the twelve oxen underneath it.
16 And Huram-abi made for King Solomon the pots, the shovels, the three-pronged meat forks, and all the utensils of polished bronze for the house of Yahweh. 
17 The king cast them in the plain of the Jordan, in the clay soil between Succoth and Zeredah. 
18 Solomon made all these utensils in great abundance, for the weight of the bronze could not be determined. 
19 So Solomon made all the objects that were in the house of God: the altar of gold; the tables upon which was the bread of the presence; 
20 the lampstands, and the lamps for burning according to the custom before the inner sanctuary, of solid gold; 
21 and the blossoms, the lamps, and the tongs that were of solid gold; 
22 and the snuffers, the drinking bowls, the dishes, and the firepans, of solid gold; and the entrance to the house, the inner doors to the most holy place, and the doors to the house of the temple were of gold.