1 "'On the seventh month, on the first day of the month, you will have a holy convocation; you will not do any regular work. It will be a day for you of blowing trumpets. 
2 You will offer a burnt offering as a fragrance of appeasement for Yahweh: one bull, one ram, and seven male lambs in their first year; they will be without defect. 
3 Their grain offering will be finely milled flour mixed with oil: three-tenths for the bull, two-tenths for the ram; 
4 and one-tenth for each of the seven male lambs; 
5 with one male goat for a sin offering, to make atonement for you, 
6 in addition to the burnt offering of the new moon and its grain offering, the continual burnt offering and its grain offering, and their libations, according to their stipulations, as a fragrance of appeasement by fire for Yahweh.
7 "'And on the tenth of this seventh month you will have a holy convocation, and you will afflict yourselves; you will not do any work. 
8 You will present a burnt offering for Yahweh, a fragrance of appeasement: one bull, one ram, seven male lambs in their first year; they will be without defect. 
9 And their grain offering will be of finely milled flour mixed with oil: three-tenths for the bull, two-tenths for the one ram, 
10 one-tenth for each of the seven male lambs; 
11 one male goat for a sin offering, in addition to the sin offering of atonement and the continual burnt offering and its grain offering, and their libations.
12 "'Then on the fifteenth day of the seventh month you will have a holy convocation; you will not do any regular work, and you will hold a religious feast for Yahweh for seven days. 
13 You will present a burnt offering, an offering made by fire as a fragrance of appeasement for Yahweh: thirteen bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs in their first year; they will be without defect. 
14 And their grain offering will be of finely milled flour mixed with oil: three-tenths for the bull, two-tenths for the one ram, 
15 one-tenth for each of the seven male lambs; 
16 and one male goat for a sin offering, in addition to the continual burnt offering, its grain offering, and its libation.
17 "'On the second day: twelve bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs in their first year; they will be without defect; 
18 and their grain offering and their libations for the bulls, for the rams, and for the male lambs, by their number according to the stipulation; 
19 and one male goat for a sin offering, in addition to the continual burnt offering and its grain offering, and their libations.
20 "'On the third day: eleven bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs without defect in their first year; 
21 and their grain offering and their libations for the bulls, for the rams, and for the male lambs, by their number according to the stipulation; 
22 and one male goat for a sin offering, in addition to the continual burnt offering, its grain offering, and its libation.
23 "'On the fourth day: ten bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs without defect in their first year; 
24 and their grain offering and their libations for the bulls, for the rams, and for the male lambs by their number according to the stipulation; 
25 and one male goat for a sin offering, in addition to the continual burnt offering, its grain offering, and its libation.
26 "'On the fifth day: nine bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs without defect in their first year; 
27 and their grain offering and their libations for the bulls, for the rams, and for the male lambs by their number according to the stipulation; 
28 and one male goat for a sin offering, in addition to the continual burnt offering, its grain offering, and its libation.
29 "'On the sixth day: eight bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs without defect in their first year; and their grain offering and their libations for the bulls, for the rams, and for the male lambs by their number according to the stipulation; 
30 and their grain offering and their libations for the bulls, for the rams, and for the male lambs by their number according to the stipulation; 
31 and one male goat for a sin offering, in addition to the continual burnt offering, its grain offering, and its libation.
32 "'On the seventh day: seven bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs without defect in their first year; 
33 and their grain offering and their libations for the bulls, for the rams, and for the male lambs by their number according to the stipulation; 
34 and one male goat for a sin offering, in addition to the continual burnt offering, its grain offering, and its libation.
35 "'On the eighth day you will have an assembly; you will not do any regular work. 
36 You will present a burnt offering, an offering made by fire as a fragrance of appeasement for Yahweh: one bull, one ram, seven male lambs without defect in their first year; 
37 and their grain offering and their libations for the bulls, for the rams, and for the male lambs by their number according to the stipulation; 
38 and one male goat for a sin offering, in addition to the continual burnt offering, its grain offering, and its libation.
39 "'You will present these to Yahweh at your appointed time, in addition to your vows and your freewill offerings, for your burnt offerings and for you grain offerings and for your libations and for your fellowship offerings.'"
40  So Moses said to the Israelites in accordance with all that Yahweh commanded Moses.