1 On the day Moses finished setting up the tabernacle and appointed and consecrated it and all its vessels, and the altar and its vessels, and he appointed them and consecrated them, 
2 the leaders of Israel, the heads of the families, presented an offering; they were the leaders of the tribes and were the ones in charge of the counting. 
3 They brought their offering before the presence of Yahweh, six covered utility carts and twelve cattle, a utility cart for two of the leaders, and a bull for each; and they presented them before the tabernacle. 
4 Yahweh said to Moses, saying, 
5 "Take them, and they will be used to do the work of the tent of the assembly; and you will give them to the Levites, each according to his required service." 
6 So Moses took the utility carts and the cattle, and he gave them to the Levites. 
7 Two utility carts and four cattle he gave to the descendants of Gershon according to their required service; 
8 and four utility carts and eight cattle he gave to the descendants of Merari according to their required service, under the authority of Ithamar son of Aaron the priest. 
9 But to the descendants of Kohath he did not give anything because the work of the sanctuary they carried upon them on their shoulders.
10 The leaders presented offerings for the dedication of the altar on the day of its anointing, and the leaders presented their offerings before the altar. 
11 Yahweh said to Moses, "One leader for each day will present their offering for the dedication of the altar."
12 And it happened, the one who presented his offering on the first day was Nahshon son of Amminadab from the tribe of Judah. 
13 His offering was one plate of silver—its weight was one hundred and thirty shekels—and one silver bowl weighing seventy shekels according to the sanctuary shekel, both of them filled with finely milled flour mixed with oil as a grain offering; 
14 one golden dish weighing ten shekels filled with incense; 
15 one young bull, one ram, one male lamb in its first year as a burnt offering; 
16 one he-goat as a sin offering; 
17 and as a sacrifice of the fellowship offering, two cattle, five rams, five he-goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Nahshon son of Amminadab.
18 On the second day Nethanel son of Zuar, leader of Issachar, presented an offering. 
19 He presented as his offering one silver plate—its weight one hundred and thirty shekels—and one silver bowl for drinking wine weighing seventy shekels according to the sanctuary shekel, both of them filled with finely milled flour mixed with oil as a grain offering. 
20 One dish weighing ten shekels filled with incense; 
21 one young  bull, one ram, a male lamb in its first year as a burnt offering; 
22 one he-goat as a sin offering; 
23 and for the sacrifice of the fellowship offering, two cattle, five rams, five he-goats, and five male lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Nethanel son of Zuar.
24 On the third day Eliab son of Helon, leader of the descendants of Zebulun: 
25 his offering was one silver plate—its weight one hundred and thirty shekels—and one silver bowl for drinking wine weighing seventy shekels according to the sanctuary shekel, both of them filled with finely milled flour mixed with oil as a grain offering; 
26 one golden dish weighing ten shekels filled with incense; 
27 one young bull, one ram, a male lamb in its first year as a burnt offering; 
28 one he-goat as a sin offering; 
29 and for the sacrifice of the fellowship offering, two cattle, five rams, five he-goats, and five male lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Eliab son of Helon.
30 On the fourth day Elizur son of Shedeur, leader of the descendants of Reuben: 
31 his offering was one silver plate—its weight one hundred and thirty shekels—and one silver bowl for drinking weighing seventy shekels according to the sanctuary shekel, both of them filled with finely milled flour mixed with oil as a grain offering; 
32 one golden dish weighing ten shekels filled with incense; 
33 one young bull, one ram, a male lamb in its first year as a burnt offering; 
34 one he-goat as a sin offering; 
35 and for the sacrifice of the fellowship offering, two cattle, five rams, five he-goats, and five male lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Elizur son of Shedeur.
36 On the fifth day Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai, leader of the descendants of Simeon: 
37 his offering was one silver plate—its weight one hundred and thirty shekels—and one silver bowl for drinking weighing seventy shekels according to the sanctuary shekel, both of them filled with finely milled flour mixed with oil as a grain offering; 
38 one golden dish weighing ten shekels filled with incense; 
39 one young bull, one ram, a male lamb in its first year as a burnt offering; 
40 one he-goat as a sin offering; 
41 and for the sacrifice of the fellowship offering, two cattle, five rams, five he-goats, and five male lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai.
42 On the sixth day Eliasaph son of Deuel, leader of the descendants of Gad: 
43 his offering was one silver plate—its weight one hundred and thirty shekels—and one silver bowl for drinking weighing seventy shekels according to the sanctuary shekel, both of them filled with finely milled flour mixed with oil as a grain offering; 
44 one golden dish weighing ten shekels filled with incense; 
45 one young bull, one ram, a male lamb in its first year as a burnt offering; 
46 one he-goat as a sin offering; 
47 and for the sacrifice of the fellowship offering, two cattle, five rams, five he-goats, and five male lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Eliasaph son of Deuel.
48 On the seventh day Elishama son of Ammihud, leader of the descendants of Ephraim: 
49 his offering was one silver plate—its weight one hundred and thirty shekels—and one silver bowl for drinking weighing seventy shekels according to the sanctuary shekel, both of them filled with finely milled flour mixed with oil as a grain offering; 
50 one golden dish weighing ten shekels filled with incense; 
51 one young bull, one ram, a male lamb in its first year as a burnt offering; 
52 one he-goat as a sin offering; 
53 and for the sacrifice of the fellowship offering, two cattle, five rams, five he-goats, and five male lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Elishama son of Ammihud.
54 On the eighth day Gamaliel son of Pedahzur, leader of the descendants of Manasseh: 
55 his offering was one silver plate—its weight one hundred and thirty shekels—and one silver bowl for drinking weighing seventy shekels according to the sanctuary shekel, both of them filled with finely milled flour mixed with oil as a grain offering; 
56 one golden dish weighing ten shekels filled with incense; 
57 one young bull, one ram, a male lamb in its first year as a burnt offering; 
58 one he-goat as a sin offering; 
59 and for the sacrifice of the fellowship offering, two cattle, five rams, five he-goats, and five male lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Gamaliel son of Pedahzur.
60 On the ninth day Abidan son of Gideoni, leader of the descendants of Benjamin: 
61 his offering was one silver plate—its weight one hundred and thirty shekels—and one silver bowl for drinking weighing seventy shekels according to the sanctuary shekel, both of them filled with finely milled flour mixed with oil as a grain offering; 
62 one golden dish weighing ten shekels filled with incense; 
63 one young bull, one ram, a male lamb in its first year as a burnt offering; 
64 one he-goat as a sin offering; 
65 and for the sacrifice of the fellowship offering, two cattle, five rams, five he-goats, and five male lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Abidan son of Gideoni.
66 On the tenth day Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai, leader of the descendants of Dan: 
67 his offering was one silver plate—its weight one hundred and thirty shekels—and one silver bowl for drinking weighing seventy shekels according to the sanctuary shekel, both of them filled with finely milled flour mixed with oil as a grain offering; 
68 one golden dish weighing ten shekels filled with incense; 
69 one young bull, one ram, a male lamb in its first year as a burnt offering; 
70 one he-goat as a sin offering; 
71 and for the sacrifice of the fellowship offering, two cattle, five rams, five he-goats, and five male lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai.
72 On the eleventh day Pagiel son of Ocran, leader of the descendants of Asher: 
73 his offering was one silver plate—its weight one hundred and thirty shekels—and one silver bowl for drinking weighing seventy shekels according to the sanctuary shekel, both of them filled with finely milled flour mixed with oil as a grain offering; 
74 one golden dish weighing ten shekels filled with incense; 
75 one young bull, one ram, a male lamb in its first year as a burnt offering; 
76 one he-goat as a sin offering; 
77 and for the sacrifice of the fellowship offering, two cattle, five rams, five he-goats, and five male lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Pagiel son of Ocran.
78 On the twelfth day Ahira son of Enan, leader of the descendants of Naphtali: 
79 his offering was one silver plate—its weight one hundred and thirty shekels—and one silver bowl for drinking weighing seventy shekels according to the sanctuary shekel, both of them filled with finely milled flour mixed with oil as a grain offering; 
80 one golden dish weighing ten shekels filled with incense; 
81 one young bull, one ram, a male lamb in its first year as a burnt offering; 
82 one he-goat as a sin offering; 
83 and for the sacrifice of the fellowship offering, two cattle, five rams, five he-goats, and five male lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Ahira son of Enan.
84 This was the dedication of the altar on the day of anointing it, from the leaders of Israel: twelve silver plates, twelve silver bowls for drinking wine, twelve golden dishes; 
85 each plate of silver weighed one hundred and thirty shekels, and each bowl for drinking seventy, all the silver of the vessels two thousand four hundred shekels, according to the sanctuary shekel; 
86 the twelve golden dishes filled with incense, each dish weighing ten shekels according to the sanctuary shekel, all the gold of the dishes one hundred and twenty; 
87 all the cattle for the burnt offering twelve bulls, twelve rams, twelve male lambs in their first year, and their grain offering; and twelve he-goats as a sin offering; 
88 and all the cattle of the sacrifice of the fellowship offering twenty-four bulls, sixty rams, sixty he-goats, sixty male lambs in their first year. These were the dedication of the altar after its anointing.
89 And when Moses came to the tent of assembly to speak with him, he would hear the voice speaking to him from the atonement cover, which is on the ark of the testimony, from between the two cherubim, and he would speak to him.