1 These were the journeys of the Israelites, who went out from the land of Egypt according to their divisions, by the hand of Moses and Aaron. 
2 Moses wrote down their movements according to their journeys on the command of Yahweh, and these are their journeys according to their movements. 
3 They set out from Rameses on the first month, on the fifteenth day of the first month; on the next day after the Passover the Israelites went out boldly in the sight of all the Egyptians 
4 while the Egyptians were burying all the firstborn among them whom Yahweh struck. Yahweh also executed punishments among their gods.
5 Then the Israelites set out from Rameses, and they camped in Succoth. 
6 They journeyed from Succoth and camped in Etham, which is on the edge of the desert. 
7 Then they set out from Etham and returned to Pi-Hahiroth, which faces Baal Zephon, and they camped before Migdol. 
8 They set out from Pi-Hahiroth and went through the midst of the sea into the desert; and they went a journey of three days into the desert of Etham and camped at Marah. 
9 They set out from Marah and came to Elim, and in Elim there were twelve springs of water and seventy palm trees, and they camped there. 
10 They set out from Elim, and they camped at the Red Sea. 
11 They set out from the Red Sea and camped at the desert of Sin. 
12 They set out from the desert of Sin and camped at Dophkah. 
13 They set out from Dophkah and camped at Alush. 
14 They set out from Alush and encamped at Rephidim; and it was there that the people had no water to drink. 
15 They set out from Rephidim and camped in the desert of Sinai. 
16 The set out from the desert of Sinai and camped at Kibroth Hattaavah.
17 They set out from Kibroth Hattaavah and camped at Hazeroth. 
18 They set out from Hazeroth and camped at Rithmah. 
19 They set out from Rithmah and camped at Rimmon Perez. 
20 They set out from Rimmon Perez and camped at Libnah. 
21 They set out from Libnah and camped at Rissah. 
22 They set out from Rissah and camped at Kehelathah. 
23 They set out from Kehelathah and camped at Mount Shapher. 
24 They set out from Mount Shapher and camped at Haradah. 
25 They set out from Haradah and camped at Makheloth. 
26 They set out from Makheloth and camped at Tahath. 
27 They set out from Tahath and camped at Terah. 
28 They set out from Terah and camped at Mithcah. 
29 They set out from Mithcah and camped at Hashmonah. 
30 They set out from Hashmonah and camped at Moserah. 
31 They set out from Moserah and camped at Bene-Jaakan. 
32 They set out from Bene-Jaakan and camped at Hor Haggidgad. 
33 They set out from Hor Haggidgad and camped at Jotbathah. 
34 They set out from Jotbathah and camped at Abronah. 
35 They set out from Abronah and camped at Ezion Geber. 
36 They set out from Ezion Geber and camped in the desert of Zin, that is, Kadesh. 
37 They set out from Kadesh and camped at Mount Hor, at the edge of the land of Edom.
38 Aaron the priest went up to Mount Hor at the command of Yahweh, and he died there in the fortieth year after the Israelites had gone out from the land of Egypt, in the fifth month on the first day of the month. 
39 Aaron was one hundred and twenty-three years old when he died on Mount Hor.
40 Now the Canaanite, the king of Arad, who was living in the Negev in the land of Canaan, heard of the coming of the Israelites.
41 Then they set out from Mount Hor and camped at Zalmonah. 
42 They set out from Zalmonah and camped at Punon. 
43 They set out from Punon and camped at Oboth. 
44 They set out from Oboth and camped at Iye Abarim, the boundary of Moab. 
45 They set out from Iyim and camped at Dibon Gad. 
46 They set out from Dibon Gad and camped at Almon-Diblatayim. 
47 They set out from Almon-Diblatayim and camped in the mountains of Abarim, before Nebo. 
48 They set out from the mountains of Abarim and camped on the desert-plateau of Moab by the Jordan across Jericho. 
49 They camped by the Jordan, from Beth-Jeshimoth up to Abel Shittim, on the desert-plateau of Moab.
50 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses on the desert-plateau of Moab by the Jordan across Jericho, saying, 
51 "Speak to the Israelites and say to them, 'When you cross the Jordan into the land of Canaan, 
52 you will drive out the inhabitants of the land from your presence, and you will destroy all their idols and all the images of their molten idols, and you will demolish all their high places; 
53 you will dispossess the land and live in it because I have given the land to you to possess it. 
54 You will distribute the land by lot according to your clans; to the larger group you will give a larger inheritance, and to the smaller group you will give less inheritance. However the lot falls for him, there the lot will be. You will distribute it according to the tribes of your ancestors. 
55 But if you do not drive out the inhabitants of the land from your presence, then it will happen that whomever you let remain of them will be like irritants in your eyes and like thorns in your sides; they will be your enemies in the land in which you live. 
56 And just as I planned to do to them, I will do to you.'"