1 Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, 
2 "Command the Israelites and say to them, 'You will be careful to present my offering, my food of my offerings made by fire, of a fragrance of appeasement to me, at its appointed time.' 
3 You will say to them, 'This is the offering made by fire that you will offer to Yahweh: two male lambs without defect in their first year as a continual burnt offering each day. 
4 You will offer one male lamb in the morning, and the second male lamb you will offer at twilight, 
5 and a tenth of an ephah of finely milled flour as a grain offering, mixed with a fourth of a measure of beaten oil. 
6 It is a continual burnt offering that was ordained on Mount Sinai as a fragrance of appeasement, an offering made by fire for Yahweh. 
7 The libation with it will be a fourth of a liquid measure for each male lamb; in the sanctuary you will pour out the libation of fermented drink for Yahweh. 
8 And the second male lamb you will offer at twilight; as the grain offering of the morning and as its libation you will offer it, an offering made by fire, a fragrance of appeasement for Yahweh.
9 "'On the day of the Sabbath, two male lambs without defect in their first year, and two-tenths of finely milled flour mixed with oil for a grain offering and its libation. 
10 This is the burnt offering every Sabbath in addition to the continual burnt offering and its libation.
11 "'And at the beginning of each of your months, you will present a burnt offering for Yahweh: two bulls and one ram, seven male lambs without defect in their first year; 
12 and three-tenths of finely milled flour mixed with oil for a grain offering, for each bull; and two-tenths of finely milled flour mixed with oil for a grain offering for the one ram; 
13 and a tenth of finely milled flour mixed with oil as a grain offering for each male lamb, for a burnt offering of a fragrance of appeasement, an offering of fire for Yahweh. 
14 Their libations will be half a liquid measure of wine for the bull and a third of a liquid measure of wine for the ram and a fourth of a liquid measure of wine for the male lamb; this is the burnt offering for every month for the months of the year. 
15 And one male goat as a sin offering for Yahweh; it will be offered in addition to the continual burnt offering and its libation.
16 "'On the fourteenth day of the first month is the Passover for Yahweh. 
17 On the fifteenth day of this month is a religious feast, unleavened bread must be eaten for seven days. 
18 On the first day there will be a holy convocation; you will not do any regular work. 
19 You will present an offering by fire, a burnt offering for Yahweh: two bulls and one ram and seven male lambs in their first year; they will be for you without defect. 
20 For their grain offering, you will offer finely milled flour mixed with oil: three-tenths for the bull and two-tenths for the ram. 
21 You will offer a tenth for each of the seven male lambs; 
22 and a goat for one sin offering to make atonement for you. 
23 You will offer these besides the burnt offering of the morning, which is for the continual burnt offering. 
24 Like this you will offer daily, for seven days, the food of the offering made by fire, a fragrance of appeasement for Yahweh; it will be offered in addition to the continual burnt offering and its libation. 
25 On the seventh day you will have a holy convocation; you will not do any regular work.
26 "'And on the day of firstfruits, when you are presenting a new offering for Yahweh during your Festival of Weeks, you will have a holy convocation; you will not do any regular work. 
27 You will present a burnt offering for a fragrance of appeasement for Yahweh: two bulls, one ram, seven male lambs in their first year; 
28 and their grain offering will be finely milled flour mixed with oil: three-tenths for each bull, two-tenths for one ram, 
29 a tenth for each of the male lambs; 
30 and one male goat to make atonement for you. 
31 In addition to the continual burnt offering and its grain offering, you will offer them without defect with their libation.