1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, 
2 "Command the Israelites and say to them, 'When you come into the land of Canaan, this is the land that was allotted to you as an inheritance, the land of Canaan according to its boundaries. 
3 Your southern edge will be from the desert of Zin toward the side of Edom, and your southern border will be from the end of the Salt Sea to the east; 
4 your boundary will turn from the south to the ascent of Akrabbim and will pass over to Zin, and its limits will be from the south of Kadesh Barnea; it will continue to Hazar Addar and pass over to Azmon. 
5 The boundary will turn from Azmon to the valley of Egypt, and its limits will be to the sea.
6 "'Your western boundary will be the Great Sea; this will be your western boundary. 
7 Your northern border will be from the Great Sea; you will make a boundary from the Great Sea to Mount Hor. 
8 From Mount Hor you will make a boundary to reach Hamath; the limits of the territory will be at Zedad. 
9 The boundary will go out to Ziphron, and its limits will be at Hazar Enan. This will be your boundary to the north.
10 "'You will mark out your eastern boundary from Hazar Enan to Shepham; 
11 the boundary will go down from Shepham to Riblah from the east side of Ain, and the boundary will go down and border on the eastern side of the Sea of Kinnereth. 
12 The boundary will go down to the Jordan, and its limits will be at the Salt Sea. This will be your land according to its boundaries all around.'"
13 So Moses commanded the Israelites, saying, "This is the land that you will obtain as an inheritance for yourself by lot, which Yahweh commanded to give to the nine and a half tribes. 
14 For the tribe of the children of the Reubenites, the children of the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh took their inheritance according to the house of their families. 
15 The two and a half tribes have taken their inheritance from beyond the Jordan across Jericho, east toward the sunrise."
16 Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, 
17 "These are the names of the men who divide up the land for your inheritance: Eleazar the priest and Joshua son of Nun. 
18 You will take one leader from every tribe to divide up the land for inheritance. 
19 These are the names of the men: of the tribe of Judah, Caleb son of Jephunneh; 
20 of the tribe of the descendants of Simeon, Samuel son of Ammihud; 
21 of the tribe of Benjamin, Elidad son of Chislon; 
22 of the tribe of the descendants of Dan, the leader Bukki son of Jogli; 
23 of the descendants of Joseph, the tribe of the descendants of Manasseh, the leader Hanniel son of Ephod. 
24 Of the tribe of the descendants of Ephraim, the leader Kemuel son of Shiphtan; 
25 of the tribe of the descendants of Zebulum, the leader Elizaphan son of Parnach; 
26 of the tribe of the descendants of Issachar, the leader Paltiel son of Azzan; 
27 of the tribe of the descendants of Asher, the leader Ahihud son of Shelomi; 
28 of the tribe of the descendants of Naphtali, the leader Pedahel son of Ammihud." 
29 These are those whom Yahweh commanded to allot to the Israelites the land of Canaan.