1 Yahweh spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying, 
2 "The Israelites will encamp each with his standard, with a banner according to their families; they will encamp around the tent of assembly. 
3 The ones who encamp on the eastern side, toward the sunrise, will be of the standard of the camp of Judah according to their divisions; and the leader of the descendants of Judah will be Nahshon son of Amminadab, 
4 and his division and the ones counted are seventy-four thousand six hundred. 
5 And the ones who encamp next to him will be the tribe of Issachar. And the leader of the descendants of Issachar will be Nethanel son of Zuar, 
6 and his division are fifty-four thousand four hundred. 
7 For the tribe of Zebulun: the leader of the descendants of Zebulun will be Eliab son of Helon, 
8 and his division and the ones counted are fifty-seven thousand four hundred. 
9 All those counted from the camp of Judah are one hundred and eighty-six thousand four hundred. They will set out first according to their divisions.
10 "The standard of the camp of Reuben will be to the south according to their divisions. The leader of the descendants will be Elizur son of Shedeur. 
11 And his division and the ones counted are forty-six thousand five hundred. 
12 Those encamped next to him will be the tribe of Simeon. The leader of the descendants of Simeon will be Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai. 
13 And his division and the ones counted are fifty-nine thousand three hundred. 
14 For the tribe of Gad: the leader of the descendants of Gad will be Eliasaph son of Reuel. 
15 And his division and the ones counted are forty-five thousand six hundred and fifty. 
16 All those counted from the camp of Reuben are one hundred and fifty-one thousand four hundred and fifty. They will set out second according to their divisions.
17 "The tent of assembly the camp of the Levites will set out in the midst of the camps; they will set out just as they encamped, each according to their standards.
18 "The standard of the camp of Ephraim according to their divisions will be to the west. The leader of the descendants of Ephraim will be Elishama son of Ammihud. 
19 And his division and the ones counted are forty thousand five hundred. 
20 The tribe of Manasseh will be next to him. The leader of the descendants of the tribe of Manasseh will be Camaliel son of Pedahzur. 
21 And his division and the ones counted are thirty-two thousand two hundred. 
22 For the tribe of Benjamin: the leader of the descendants of Benjamin will be Abidan son of Gideoni. 
23 And his division and the ones counted are thirty-five thousand four hundred. 
24 All those counted from the camp of Ephraim are one hundred and eighty thousand one hundred. They will set out third according to their divisions.
25 "The standard of the camp of Dan according to their divisions will be to the west. The leader of the descendants of Dan will be Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai. 
26 And his division and the ones counted are sixty-two thousand seven hundred. 
27 Those encamped next to him will be the tribe of Asher. The leader of the descendants of Asher will be Pagiel son of Ocran. 
28 And his division and the ones counted are forty-one thousand five hundred. 
29 For the tribe of Naphtali: the leader of the descendants of Naphtali will be Ahira son of Enan. 
30 And his division and the ones counted are fifty-three thousand four hundred. 
31 All the ones counted from the camp of Dan are one hundred and fifty-seven thousand six hundred. They will set out last according to their divisions."
32 These were the ones counted of the Israelites according to their families; all those counted from the camps according to their divisions were six hundred and three thousand five hundred. 
33 The Levites were not counted in the midst of the Israelites, just as Yahweh commanded Moses.
34 And the Israelites did everything that Yahweh commanded Moses. They encamped according to their standards, and they set out each one according to their clans among their families.