1 And Balaam saw that it pleased Yahweh to bless Israel, and he did not go as other times to seek out sorcery; instead, he set his face toward the desert. 
2 Balaam lift up his eyes, and he saw Israel dwelling according to its tribes, and the spirit of God was upon it. 
3 He uttered his oracle and said, "The declaration of Balaam son Beor, the declaration of the man whose eyes are closed,
4 the declaration of the hearer of God's words, who sees the revelation of Shaddai, falling down but whose eyes are uncovered.
5 How good are your tents, O Jacob, your dwellings, O Israel!
6 They are spread out like valleys, like gardens on a river, like aloes planted by Yahweh, like cedars at the waters.
7 He will pour water from his buckets, and his offspring will be like many waters; his king will be higher than Agag, and his kingdom will be exalted.
8 God, who brings him out from Egypt, is like the strength of a wild ox for him. He will devour the nations who are his enemies; he will break their bones; he will pierce them with his arrows.
9 He crouches, he lies down like a lion, and like a lioness, who will rouse him? They who bless you will be blessed, and they who curse you will be cursed."
10 Then Balak became angry with Balaam, and he clapped his hands and said to Balaam, "I called you to curse my enemies, but look, you have surely blessed them these three times. 
11 Flee to your place now. I said I would richly honor you, but look, Yahweh has withheld honor from you." 
12 Balaam said to Balak, "Did I not speak to your messengers whom you sent to me, saying, 
13 'If Balak gave to me the fullness of his house full of silver and gold, I am not able to go beyond the command of Yahweh to do good or evil, from my heart; what Yahweh speaks, I will speak'? 
14 And now, look, I am about to go to my people; I will advise you what this people will do to your people in the following days."
15 And he uttered his oracle and said, "The declaration of Balaam son of Beor, and the declaration of the man whose eye is closed,
16 the declaration of the hearer of God's words, and the knower of the knowledge of the Most High, who sees the vision of Shaddai, who is falling, and his eyes are revealed.
17 I see him, but not now; I behold him, but not near; a star will go out from Jacob, and a scepter will rise from Israel; it will crush the foreheads of Moab and destroy all the children of Seth.
18 Edom will be a captive; Seir, its enemies, will be a captive, and Israel will be acting courageously.
19 Someone from Jacob will rule and will destroy a remnant from the city."
20 And he looked at Amalek, uttered his oracle, and said, "Amalek is first of the nations, but his future will be forever ruin."
21 And he looked at the Kenites, uttered his oracle, and said, "Steady is your dwelling place; in the rock is your nest.
22 Nevertheless, the Kenite will be burned; how long will Asshur keep you captive?"
23 Again he uttered his oracle and said, "Woe, who will live when God establishes this?
24 The ships will come from the hand of the Kittim, and they will afflict Asshur and will afflict Eber; also he will be forever ruin."
25 Then Balaam got up and went and returned to his place, and Balak also went on his way.