1 A man who is reproved, being stubborn of neck— suddenly he will be broken, and there will not be healing.
2 When the righteous are numerous, the people will rejoice, but when the wicked are ruling, people will groan.
3 A man who loves wisdom will make his parents glad, but the friend of prostitutes will squander his wealth.
4 By justice a king gives stability to a land, but a man of bribes will ruin it.
5 A strong man who flatters his neighbor is spreading a net for his feet.
6 In transgression, an evil man is a snare, but the righteous will sing and rejoice.
7 The righteous knows the case of the poor, but the wicked does not understand knowledge.
8 Men of scoffing set a city aflame, but the wise turn away wrath.
9 If a wise man goes to court with a foolish man, then there is rankling and ridicule, but there is no relief.
10 Men of blood hate the blameless, and they seek the life of the upright.
11 A fool gives all his breath, but the wise holds back in quiet.
12 A ruler listening to a word of falsehood, all his officials are wicked.
13 The poor and a man of oppression have this in common: Yahweh gives light to the eyes of them both.
14 A king who judges with truthfulness to the poor, his throne will be established forever.
15 As for a rod and reproof, they will give wisdom, but a neglected child is disgraced by his mother.
16 With the increase of the wicked, transgression will increase, but the righteous will look on his downfall.
17 Discipline your children, and they will give you rest, and they will give delight to your soul.
18 When there is no prophecy, the people cast off restraint, but as for he who guards instruction, happiness is his.
19 By words, a servant is not disciplined, for he will understand, but there is no giving heed.
20 You see a man who is hasty in his words: there is more hope for a fool than him.
21 He who pampers his servant from childhood, arrogance will be his end.
22 A man of anger will stir strife, and the owner of anger, much transgression.
23 The pride of a person will bring him humiliation, and the lowly of spirit will obtain honor.
24 Being a partner with a thief is hating one's life; a curse he will hear, but not disclose.
25 The fear of a person will lay a snare, but he who trusts in Yahweh will be secure.
26 Many are those who seek the favor of a ruler, but from Yahweh one obtains justice.
27 A man of injustice is an abomination to the righteous, but the upright is an abomination to the wicked.