1 Balances of deceit are an abomination of Yahweh, but an accurate weight delights him.
2 Pride comes, then disgrace comes, but wisdom is with the humble.
3 The integrity of the upright guides them, but the crookedness of the treacherous destroys them.
4 Wealth does not profit on the day of wrath, but righteousness will deliver from death.
5 The righteousness of the blameless will keep his ways straight, but the wicked will fall by his wickedness.
6 The righteousness of the upright will save them, but by a scheme the treacherous will be taken captive.
7 With the death of a wicked person, hope will die, and the expectation of the godless perishes.
8 The righteous is delivered from trouble, but the wicked enters into it.
9 With a mouth, the godless shall destroy his neighbor, but by knowledge the righteous are delivered.
10 When good is with the righteous, the city rejoices, and with the perishing of the wicked, jubilation.
11 By the blessing of the upright, a city will be exalted, but by the mouth of the wicked, it will be overthrown.
12 He who lacks sense belittles his neighbor, but a person of intelligence will remain silent.
13 A gossip walks about telling a secret, but the trustworthy in spirit keeps the matter.
14 Where there is no guidance, a nation shall fall, but there is safety in an abundance of counsel.
15 He will suffer trouble when he loans to a stranger, but he who refuses a pledge is safe.
16 A woman of grace receives honor, but the ruthless gets wealth.
17 A person of kindness rewards himself, but a cruel person harms his own flesh.
18 The wicked earns deceptive gain, but he who sows righteousness, a true reward.
19 He who is steadfast in righteousness is to life as he who pursues evil is to death.
20 An abomination of Yahweh are the crooked of heart, but his delight are those with blameless ways.
21 Rest assured, the wicked will not go unpunished, but the offspring of the righteous will escape.
22 A ring of gold in the snout of a pig is a woman who is beautiful but without discretion.
23 The desire of the righteous is only good, but the expectation of the wicked, wrath.
24 There is one who gives yet grows richer, but he who withholds what is right only finds need.
25 A person of blessing will be enriched, and he who gives water also will be refreshed.
26 He who withholds grain, the people curse him, but a blessing is for the head of him who sells.
27 He who diligently seeks good seeks favor, but he who inquires of evil, it will come to him.
28 He who trusts in his wealth is he who will fall, but like a green leaf the righteous will flourish.
29 He who brings trouble to his household, he will inherit wind, and a fool will serve the wise of heart.
30 The fruit of righteousness is a tree of life, and he who captures souls is wise.
31 If the righteous on earth will be repaid, how much more the wicked and sinner.