1 To mortals belong the plans of the heart, but from Yahweh comes the answer of the tongue.
2 All the ways of a man are pure in his own eyes, but Yahweh weighs the spirit.
3 Commit your work to Yahweh, and your plans will be established.
4 All Yahweh has made is for his purpose, and even the wicked for the day of trouble.
5 An abomination of Yahweh are all who are arrogant of heart; rest assured, he will not go unpunished.
6 By loyalty and faithfulness, iniquity will be covered over, and by fear of Yahweh one turns from evil.
7 When the ways of a man are pleasing to Yahweh, even his enemies he will cause to make peace with him.
8 Better is little with righteousness than great income with no justice.
9 The mind of a person will plan his ways, and Yahweh will direct his steps.
10 A decision is upon the lips of a king; in judgment his mouth will not sin.
11 A balance and scales of justice belong to Yahweh; all the weights of the bag are his work.
12 An abomination to kings is doing evil, for by righteousness the throne will be established.
13 The delight of kings are the lips of righteousness, and he who speaks what is upright he will love.
14 The wrath of a king is a messenger of death, but one who is wise will appease it.
15 In the light of the face of the king there is life, and his favor is like a cloud of spring rain.
16 Getting wisdom: how much better than gold! And getting understanding: it is chosen over silver.
17 The highway of the upright, it turns from evil, he who guards himself keeps his way.
18 Before destruction comes pride, and before a fall, a haughty spirit.
19 Better a lowly spirit with the poor than dividing the spoil with the proud.
20 He who is attentive to a matter will find goodness, and he who trusts in Yahweh, his own happiness.
21 The wise of heart is called perceptive, but he who is pleasant of lips will increase persuasiveness.
22 A fountain of life is wisdom for its owner, but the instruction of fools is folly.
23 The heart of the wise will make his mouth judicious, and upon his lips, it will add persuasiveness.
24 Pleasant sayings are a honeycomb, sweetness to the soul and healing to the bones.
25 There is a way that seems upright to a man, but its end is the way of death.
26 The life of a worker works for him, for his hunger urges him.
27 A man of wickedness concocts evil, and his lips are like a scorching fire.
28 A person of perversity will spread dissent, and he who whispers separates a close friend.
29 A person of violence will entice his neighbor and cause him to walk on a way that is not good.
30 He who winks his eyes does so in order to plan perverse things; he who purses his lips will bring evil to pass.
31 A crown of glory is gray hair; by a righteous life it is gained.
32 He who is slow to anger is better than him who is mighty, and he who controls his spirit than him who captures a city.
33 The lot will be cast into the lap, but all of its decisions are from Yahweh.