1 A soft answer will turn away wrath, but a word of trouble will stir anger.
2 The tongue of the wise will dispense knowledge, but the mouth of fools will pour out folly.
3 In every place, the eyes of Yahweh keep watch over the evil and the good.
4 Gentleness of tongue is a tree of life, but perverseness in it causes a break in spirit.
5 A fool will despise the instruction of his father, but he who guards reproof is prudent.
6 In the house of the righteous there is much treasure, but the income of the wicked brings trouble.
7 The lips of the wise will spread knowledge, but the heart of fools, not so.
8 The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination of Yahweh, but the prayer of the upright is his delight.
9 An abomination of Yahweh is the way of the wicked, but he who pursues righteousness he will love.
10 Severe discipline belongs to him who forsakes the way; he who hates a rebuke will die.
11 Sheol and Abaddon are before Yahweh, how much more the hearts of the children of men!
12 A scoffer does not like his rebuke; to the wise he will not go.
13 A heart of gladness will make good countenance, but in sorrow of heart a spirit is broken.
14 The heart of him who understands will seek knowledge, but the faces of fools, they will feed on folly.
15 All the days of the poor are hard, but goodness of heart is a continuous feast.
16 Better is little with the fear of Yahweh than great treasure and trouble with it.
17 Better is a dinner of vegetables when love is there than a fattened ox and hatred with it.
18 A man who is hot-tempered will stir up strife, but he who is slow to anger, he will calm contention.
19 The way of the lazy is like a hedge of thorns, but the path of the upright is a highway.
20 A child of wisdom will make a father glad, but a foolish person, he despises his mother.
21 Folly is a joy to him who lacks sense, and a person of understanding will walk upright.
22 Plans go wrong when there is no counsel, but with many advisors it will succeed.
23 Joy belongs to a man with answers in his mouth, and a word in its time, how good it is!
24 The path of life leads upward for him who has insight, in order to turn away from Sheol below.
25 The house of the proud, Yahweh will tear it down, but he will maintain the property line of the widow.
26 Plans of evil are an abomination of Yahweh, but gracious words are pure.
27 He who makes trouble for his house is he who is greedy for unjust gain, but he who hates bribes will live.
28 A heart of righteousness will ponder the answer, but a mouth of wickedness will pour out deceit.
29 Yahweh is far from the wicked, but the prayers of the righteous he will hear.
30 From the light of the eyes, the heart will rejoice, and good news will enliven the bones.
31 The ear of him who listens to admonitions of life, in the midst of the wise it will lodge.
32 He who ignores instruction despises himself, but he who hears admonition gains heart.
33 Fear of Yahweh is the instruction of the wise, and before honor comes humility.