1 The wicked flee, but no one pursues, but the righteous is bold like a lion.
2 By the rebellion of a land, her rulers increase, but by a person of intelligence who knows justice, it will last.
3 A man who is poor and oppresses the impoverished is a beating rain that leaves no food.
4 Those who forsake instruction will praise the wicked, but they who guard instruction will struggle against them.
5 Men of evil do not understand justice, but seekers of Yahweh understand completely.
6 Better to be poor and walking in one's integrity than to be crooked of ways when one is rich.
7 He who keeps instruction is a child of understanding, but the companion of gluttons will shame his father.
8 He who augments his wealth with interest and with usury gathers it for him who is kind to the poor.
9 He who turns his ear from listening to instruction, even his prayer is an abomination.
10 He who misleads the upright onto the way of evil, into his pits he will fall. But as for the blameless, they will inherit good.
11 A man of wealth is wise in his own eyes, but the intelligent poor sees through him.
12 When the righteous triumphs, great is the glory, but with the rising of the wicked, a person will be hidden.
13 He who conceals his transgression will not prosper, but he who confesses and forsakes will obtain mercy.
14 Happy is the person who fears continuously, but he who is stubborn of heart, will fall into calamity.
15 Like a roaring lion and a charging bear is a wicked ruler over a poor people.
16 A ruler who lacks understanding is a cruel oppressor, but those who hate unjust gain will have long days.
17 A person who is burdened with the blood of another, until death he will flee; do not take hold of him.
18 He who walks in integrity will be safe, but he who takes crooked paths will fall in one.
19 He who tills his ground will have plenty bread, but he who follows fantasies will have plenty of poverty.
20 A man of faithfulness has abundant blessings, but he who hurries to become rich will not go unpunished.
21 Showing partiality is not good, and over a morsel of bread, a strong man will do wrong.
22 He who hurries for wealth is a man with an evil eye, but he does not know that poverty will come upon him.
23 He who rebukes a person will afterward find more favor than he who flatters with the tongue.
24 He who robs his father and his mother and says, "There is no crime," is partner to a man who corrupts.
25 The greedy person will stir up strife, but he who trusts in Yahweh will be enriched.
26 He who trusts in his own heart is a fool, but he who walks in wisdom will be saved.
27 For he who gives to the poor, there is no lacking, but for he who turns his eyes, there are many curses.
28 With the rising of the wicked, humankind will be hidden, and with their perishing, the righteous will multiply.