1 A wise child hears the discipline of a father, but a scoffer does not listen to a rebuke.
2 From the fruit of the mouth of a man, he shall eat what is good, but the desire of the treacherous, wrongdoing.
3 He who keeps his mouth guards his life; he who opens his lips, ruin belongs to him.
4 The soul of the lazy craves, but there is nothing, but the person of diligence is richly supplied.
5 The righteous hates a word of falsehood; the wicked will bring shame and disgrace.
6 Righteousness will guard the upright of way, but wickedness will overthrow sin.
7 There is one who acts rich but has nothing; another who pretends to be poor but has wealth.
8 The ransom of the life of a man is his wealth, but the poor does not receive a threat.
9 The light of the righteous will rejoice, but the lamp of the wicked will die out.
10 Only by insolence is strife set up, and wisdom is with those who take advice.
11 Wealth gained from haste will dwindle, but he who gathers little by little will increase it.
12 Hope that is deferred makes the heart sick, but a desire fulfilled is a tree of life.
13 He who despises a word will bring destruction on himself, but he who respects a commandment will be rewarded.
14 The teaching of the wise is a fountain of life, in order to avoid the snares of death.
15 Good sense grants favor, but the way of the faithless is coarse.
16 Anyone who is clever will act with intelligence, but the fool will display folly.
17 A messenger of wickedness will fall into trouble, but an envoy of the faithful brings healing.
18 Poverty and disgrace belong to him who ignores instruction, but he who guards reproof will be honored.
19 A desire fulfilled will be sweet to the soul, but an abomination of fools is turning from evil.
20 Walk with the wise and be wise, but as for the companion of fools, he will suffer harm.
21 Misfortune will pursue sinners, but the righteous will be rewarded with prosperity.
22 He who is good will leave an inheritance to his grandchildren, and stored up for the righteous is the wealth of a sinner.
23 There is much food in the field of the poor, but it is swept away by injustice.
24 He who withholds his rod hates his child, but he who loves him gives him discipline.
25 The righteous eats to satisfy his life, but the belly of the wicked will lack.