1 These are also proverbs of Solomon which officials of Hezekiah king of Judah copied:
2 The glory of God conceals things, but the glory of kings searches out things.
3 As heaven is to height and the earth is to depth, so is the heart of kings—there is no searching.
4 Remove the dross from silver, and it will become a vessel for the smith.
5 Remove the wicked before a king, and his throne will be established in righteousness.
6 Do not promote yourself before the king, and in the place of the great ones do not stand.
7 For it is better that he say to you, "Ascend here," than he humble you before a noble. What your eyes have seen,
8 do not hastily bring out to court, for what will you do at its end, when your neighbor puts you to shame?
9 Argue your argument with your neighbor himself, the secret of another do not disclose,
10 lest he who hears shame you and your ill repute will not end.
11 Apples of gold in a setting of silver is a matter spoken at its proper time.
12 A ring of gold and an ornament of fine gold is a rebuke of the wise to the ear of a listener.
13 Like the cold of snow on a day of harvest is a faithful messenger to those who send him, and the soul of his master is refreshed.
14 Like clouds and wind when there is no rain, so too is a man who boasts in a gift of deception.
15 With patience a ruler may be persuaded, and a soft tongue will break a bone.
16 If you find honey, eat what is sufficient for you, lest you have your fill of it and vomit it out.
17 Make your foot scarce in the house of your neighbor, lest he become weary of you and hate you.
18 Like a club and sword and a sharp arrow is a man who bears false witness against his neighbor.
19 A bad tooth and a lame foot is the trust of a faithless person in a time of trouble.
20 Like one who removes a garment on a cold day, or like vinegar on natron, is he who sings songs to a heavy heart.
21 If your enemy is hungry, feed him bread, and if thirsty, let him drink water.
22 For coals of fire you will heap upon his head, and Yahweh will reward you.
23 The wind of the north produces rain, and a backbiting tongue, angry faces.
24 Better to live upon the corner of a roof than with a woman of contention and in a shared house.
25 Like cold water upon a weary soul, so too is good news from a distant place.
26 Like a muddied spring or a polluted fountain is the righteous who gives way before the wicked.
27 To eat much honey is not good, nor is seeking one's honor honorable.
28 A breached city where there is no wall is like a man who has no self-control for his spirit.