1 Do not boast about tomorrow, for you do not know what the day will bring.
2 May another praise you and not your own mouth, a stranger and not your own lips.
3 Heavy is a stone and weighty is sand, but the provocation of a fool is heavier than both of them.
4 Cruel is wrath and overwhelming is anger, but who will stand before jealousy?
5 Better a rebuke that is open than a love that is hidden.
6 The wounds of a friend mean well, but the kisses of an enemy are profane.
7 An appetite that is sated spurns honey, but to an appetite that is ravenous, all bitterness is sweet.
8 Like a bird that strays from its nest, so is a man who strays from his place.
9 Perfume and incense will gladden a heart, and the pleasantness of one's friend is personal advice.
10 As for your friend and a friend of your father, do not forsake them, and the house of your brother, do not enter on the day of your calamity. Better is a close neighbor than a distant brother.
11 Be wise, my child, and make my heart glad, and I will answer him who reproaches me with a word.
12 When the clever sees danger, he hides; the simple go on and suffer.
13 Take his garment, for he gives surety to a stranger, and to an adulteress—so take his pledge.
14 He who blesses his neighbor with a loud voice early in the morning, a curse will be reckoned to him.
15 Dripping constantly on a day of heavy rain and a woman of contention are alike.
16 In restraining her, he restrains wind, and his right hand will grasp oil.
17 As iron sharpens iron, so one man sharpens another.
18 He who tends a fig tree will eat its fruit, and he who guards his master will be honored.
19 As the waters reflect face to face, so the heart of a person reflects the person.
20 Sheol and Abaddon will not be satisfied, and the eyes of a person will not be satisfied either.
21 A crucible is for the silver, and a furnace for the gold, but a man is tested by the mouth of him who praises him.
22 If you crush a fool in the mortar with the pestle along with the crushed grain, it will not drive folly from upon him.
23 You will surely know the condition of your flock; your heart attends to the herds.
24 For riches are not forever, nor a crown for generation after generation.
25 When the grass is gone, then green growth will appear, and the herbs of the mountains will be gathered.
26 Lambs will be your clothing, and goats the price of the field.
27 And there will be enough goats' milk for your food, for the food of your household and the nourishment of your maidservants.