1 Now a summary of the things of which we are speaking , We have such a one high priest who has sat down on  right hand of the throne of the greatness in the heavens;
2 minister of the holy places and of the true tabernacle, which the Lord has pitched,  not man.
3 For every high priest is constituted for the offering both of gifts and sacrifices; whence it is needful that this one also should have something which he may offer.
4 If then indeed he were upon earth, he would not even be a priest, there being those who offer the gifts according to the law,
5 (who serve the representation and shadow of heavenly things, according as Moses was oracularly told  about to make the tabernacle; for See, saith He, that thou make all things according to the pattern which has been shewn to thee in the mountain.)
6 But now he has got a more excellent ministry, by so much as he is mediator of a better covenant, which is established on the footing of better promises.
7 For if that first was faultless, place had not been sought for a second.
8 For finding fault, he says to them, Behold, days come, saith the Lord, and I will consummate a new covenant as regards the house of Israel, and as regards the house of Juda;
9 not according to the covenant which I made to their fathers in  day of my taking their hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; because *they* did not continue in my covenant, and *I* did not regard them, saith  Lord.
10 Because this  the covenant that I will covenant to the house of Israel after those days, saith the Lord: Giving my laws into their mind, I will write them also upon their hearts; and I will be to them for God, and *they* shall be to me for people.
11 And they shall not teach each his fellow-citizen, and each his brother, saying, Know the Lord; because all shall know me in themselves, from  little one [among them] unto  great among them.
12 Because I will be merciful to their unrighteousnesses, and their sins and their lawlessnesses I will never remember any more.
13 In that he says New, he has made the first old; but that which grows old and aged  near disappearing.