1 Now concerning the collections that are made for the saints, as I have given order to the churches of Galatia, so do ye also.
2 On the first day of the week let every one of you put apart with himself, laying up what it shall well please him; that when I come, the collections be not then to be made.
3 And when I shall be with you, whomsoever you shall approve by letters, them will I send to carry your grace to Jerusalem.
4 And if it be meet that I also go, they shall go with me.
5 Now I will come to you, when I shall have passed through Macedonia. For I shall pass through Macedonia.
6 And with you perhaps I shall abide, or even spend the winter: that you may bring me on my way whithersoever I shall go.
7 For I will not see you now by the way, for I trust that I shall abide with you some time, if the Lord permit.
8 But I will tarry at Ephesus until Pentecost.
9 For a great door and evident is opened unto me: and many adversaries.
10 Now if Timothy come, see that he be with you without fear, for he worketh the work of the Lord, as I also do.
11 Let no man therefore despise him, but conduct ye him on his way in peace: that he may come to me. For I look for him with the brethren.
12 And touching our brother Apollo, I give you to understand, that I much entreated him to come unto you with the brethren: and indeed it was not his will at all to come at this time. But he will come when he shall have leisure.
13 Watch ye, stand fast in the faith, do manfully, and be strengthened.
14 Let all your things be done in charity.
15 And I beseech you, brethren, you know the house of Stephanas, and of Fortunatus, and of Achaicus, that they are the firstfruits of Achaia, and have dedicated themselves to the ministry of the saints:
16 That you also be subject to such, and to every one that worketh with us, and laboureth.
17 And I rejoice in the presence of Stephanas, and Fortunatus, and Achaicus, because that which was wanting on your part, they have supplied.
18 For they have refreshed both my spirit and yours. Know them, therefore, that are such.
19 The churches of Asia salute you. Aquila and Priscilla salute you much in the Lord, with the church that is in their house, with whom I also lodge.
20 All the brethren salute you. Salute one another with a holy kiss.
21 The salutation of me Paul, with my own hand.
22 If any man love not our Lord Jesus Christ, let him be anathema, maranatha.
23 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
24 My charity be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen.