1 And having risen thence, he doth come to the coasts of Judea, through the other side of the Jordan, and again do multitudes come together unto him, and, as he had been accustomed, again he was teaching them.
2 And the Pharisees, having come near, questioned him, if it is lawful for a husband to put away a wife, tempting him,
3 and he answering said to them, `What did Moses command you?'
4 and they said, `Moses suffered to write a bill of divorce, and to put away.'
5 And Jesus answering said to them, `For the stiffness of your heart he wrote you this command,
6 but from the beginning of the creation, a male and a female God did make them;
7 on this account shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall cleave unto his wife,
8 and they shall be -- the two -- for one flesh; so that they are no more two, but one flesh;
9 what therefore God did join together, let not man put asunder.'
10 And in the house again his disciples of the same thing questioned him,
11 and he saith to them, `Whoever may put away his wife, and may marry another, doth commit adultery against her;
12 and if a woman may put away her husband, and is married to another, she committeth adultery.'
13 And they were bringing to him children, that he might touch them, and the disciples were rebuking those bringing them,
14 and Jesus having seen, was much displeased, and he said to them, `Suffer the children to come unto me, and forbid them not, for of such is the reign of God;
15 verily I say to you, whoever may not receive the reign of God, as a child -- he may not enter into it;'
16 and having taken them in his arms, having put  hands upon them, he was blessing them.
17 And as he is going forth into the way, one having run and having kneeled to him, was questioning him, `Good teacher, what may I do, that life age-during I may inherit?'
18 And Jesus said to him, `Why me dost thou call good? no one  good except One -- God;
19 the commands thou hast known: Thou mayest not commit adultery, Thou mayest do no murder, Thou mayest not steal, Thou mayest not bear false witness, Thou mayest not defraud, Honour thy father and mother.'
20 And he answering said to him, `Teacher, all these did I keep from my youth.'
21 And Jesus having looked upon him, did love him, and said to him, `One thing thou dost lack; go away, whatever thou hast -- sell, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven, and come, be following me, having taken up the cross.'
22 And he -- gloomy at the word -- went away sorrowing, for he was having many possessions.
23 And Jesus having looked round, saith to his disciples, `How hardly shall they who have riches enter into the reign of God!'
24 And the disciples were astonished at his words, and Jesus again answering saith to them, `Children, how hard is it to those trusting on the riches to enter into the reign of God!
25 It is easier for a camel through the eye of the needle to enter, than for a rich man to enter into the reign of God.'
26 And they were astonished beyond measure, saying unto themselves, `And who is able to be saved?'
27 And Jesus, having looked upon them, saith, `With men it is impossible, but not with God; for all things are possible with God.'
28 And Peter began to say to him, `Lo, we left all, and we followed thee.'
29 And Jesus answering said, `Verily I say to you, there is no one who left house, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or fields, for my sake, and for the good news',
30 who may not receive an hundredfold now in this time, houses, and brothers, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and fields, with persecutions, and in the age that is coming, life age-during;
31 and many first shall be last, and the last first.'
32 And they were in the way going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus was going before them, and they were amazed, and following they were afraid. And having again taken the twelve, he began to tell them the things about to happen to him,
33 -- `Lo, we go up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man shall be delivered to the chief priests, and to the scribes, and they shall condemn him to death, and shall deliver him to the nations,
34 and they shall mock him, and scourge him, and spit on him, and kill him, and the third day he shall rise again.'
35 And there come near to him James and John, the sons of Zebedee, saying, `Teacher, we wish that whatever we may ask for ourselves, thou mayest do for us;'
36 and he said to them, `What do ye wish me to do for you?'
37 and they said to him, `Grant to us that, one on thy right hand and one on thy left, we may sit in thy glory;'
38 and Jesus said to them, `Ye have not known what ye ask; are ye able to drink of the cup that I drink of, and with the baptism that I am baptized with -- to be baptized?'
39 And they said to him, `We are able;' and Jesus said to them, `Of the cup indeed that I drink of, ye shall drink, and with the baptism that I am baptized with, ye shall be baptized;
40 but to sit on my right and on my left, is not mine to give, but -- to those for whom it hath been prepared.'
41 And the ten having heard, began to be much displeased at James and John,
42 but Jesus having called them near, saith to them, `Ye have known that they who are considered to rule the nations do exercise lordship over them, and their great ones do exercise authority upon them;
43 but not so shall it be among you; but whoever may will to become great among you, he shall be your minister,
44 and whoever of you may will to become first, he shall be servant of all;
45 for even the Son of Man came not to be ministered to, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many.'
46 And they come to Jericho, and as he is going forth from Jericho, with his disciples and a great multitude, a son of Timaeus -- Bartimaeus the blind -- was sitting beside the way begging,
47 and having heard that it is Jesus the Nazarene, he began to cry out, and to say, `The Son of David -- Jesus! deal kindly with me;'
48 and many were rebuking him, that he might keep silent, but the more abundantly he cried out, `Son of David, deal kindly with me.'
49 And Jesus having stood, he commanded him to be called, and they call the blind man, saying to him, `Take courage, rise, he doth call thee;'
50 and he, having cast away his garment, having risen, did come unto Jesus.
51 And answering, Jesus saith to him, `What wilt thou I may do to thee?' and the blind man said to him, `Rabboni, that I may see again;'
52 and Jesus said to him, `Go, thy faith hath saved thee:' and immediately he saw again, and was following Jesus in the way.