1 And Jehovah saith unto Moses, `Go in unto Pharaoh, and thou hast spoken unto him, Thus said Jehovah, God of the Hebrews, Send My people away, and they serve me,
2 for, if thou art refusing to send away, and art still keeping hold upon them,
3 lo, the hand of Jehovah is on thy cattle which  in the field, on horses, on asses, on camels, on herd, and on flock -- a pestilence very grievous.
4 `And Jehovah hath separated between the cattle of Israel and the cattle of Egypt, and there doth not die a thing of all the sons of Israel's;
5 and Jehovah setteth an appointed time, saying, To-morrow doth Jehovah do this thing in the land.'
6 And Jehovah doth this thing on the morrow, and all the cattle of Egypt die, and of the cattle of the sons of Israel not one hath died;
7 and Pharaoh sendeth, and lo, not even one of the cattle of Israel hath died, and the heart of Pharaoh is hard, and he hath not sent the people away.
8 And Jehovah saith unto Moses and unto Aaron, `Take to you the fulness of your hands  soot of a furnace, and Moses hath sprinkled it towards the heavens, before the eyes of Pharaoh,
9 and it hath become small dust over all the land of Egypt, and it hath become on man and on cattle a boil breaking forth  blains, in all the land of Egypt.'
10 And they take the soot of the furnace, and stand before Pharaoh, and Moses sprinkleth it towards the heavens, and it is a boil  blains, breaking forth, on man and on beast;
11 and the scribes have not been able to stand before Moses, because of the boil, for the boil hath been on the scribes, and on all the Egyptians.
12 And Jehovah strengtheneth the heart of Pharaoh, and he hath not hearkened unto them, as Jehovah hath spoken unto Moses.
13 And Jehovah saith unto Moses, `Rise early in the morning, and station thyself before Pharaoh, and thou hast said unto him, Thus said Jehovah, God of the Hebrews, Send My people away, and they serve Me,
14 for, at this time I am sending all My plagues unto thy heart, and on thy servants, and on thy people, so that thou knowest that there is none like Me in all the earth,
15 for now I have put forth My hand, and I smite thee, and thy people, with pestilence, and thou art hidden from the earth.
16 `And yet for this I have caused thee to stand, so as to show thee My power, and for the sake of declaring My Name in all the earth;
17 still thou art exalting thyself against My people -- so as not to send them away;
18 lo, I am raining about  time to-morrow hail very grievous, such as hath not been in Egypt, even from the day of its being founded, even until now.
19 `And, now, send, strengthen thy cattle and all that thou hast in the field; every man and beast which is found in the field, and is not gathered into the house -- come down on them hath the hail, and they have died.'
20 He who is fearing the word of Jehovah among the servants of Pharaoh hath caused his servants and his cattle to flee unto the houses;
21 and he who hath not set his heart unto the word of Jehovah leaveth his servants and his cattle in the field.
22 And Jehovah saith unto Moses, `Stretch forth thy hand towards the heavens, and there is hail in all the land of Egypt, on man, and on beast, and on every herb of the field in the land of Egypt.'
23 And Moses stretcheth out his rod towards the heavens, and Jehovah hath given voices and hail, and fire goeth towards the earth, and Jehovah raineth hail on the land of Egypt,
24 and there is hail, and fire catching itself in the midst of the hail, very grievous, such as hath not been in all the land of Egypt since it hath become a nation.
25 And the hail smiteth in all the land of Egypt all that  in the field, from man even unto beast, and every herb of the field hath the hail smitten, and every tree of the field it hath broken;
26 only in the land of Goshen, where the sons of Israel , there hath been no hail.
27 And Pharaoh sendeth, and calleth for Moses and for Aaron, and saith unto them, `I have sinned this time, Jehovah  the Righteous, and I and my people  the Wicked,
28 make ye supplication unto Jehovah, and plead that there be no voices of God and hail, and I send you away, and ye add not to remain.'
29 And Moses saith unto him, `At my going out of the city, I spread my palms unto Jehovah -- the voices cease, and the hail is not any more, so that thou knowest that the earth  Jehovah's;
30 but thou and thy servants -- I have known that ye are not yet afraid of the face of Jehovah God.'
31 And the flax and the barley have been smitten, for the barley  budding, and the flax forming flowers,
32 and the wheat and the rye have not been smitten, for they are late.
33 And Moses goeth out from Pharaoh,  the city, and spreadeth his hands unto Jehovah, and the voices and the hail cease, and rain hath not been poured out to the earth;
34 and Pharaoh seeth that the rain hath ceased, and the hail and the voices, and he continueth to sin, and hardeneth his heart, he and his servants;
35 and the heart of Pharaoh is strong, and he hath not sent the sons of Israel away, as Jehovah hath spoken by the hand of Moses.