1 And Jehovah speaketh unto Moses, saying,
2 `On the first day of the month, in the first month, thou dost raise up the tabernacle of the tent of meeting,
3 and hast set there the ark of the testimony, and hast covered over the ark with the vail,
4 and hast brought in the table, and set its arrangement in order, and hast brought in the candlestick, and caused its lamps to go up.
5 `And thou hast put the golden altar for perfume before the ark of the testimony, and hast put the covering of the opening to the tabernacle,
6 and hast put the altar of the burnt-offering before the opening of the tabernacle of the tent of meeting,
7 and hast put the laver between the tent of meeting and the altar, and hast put water there.
8 `And thou hast set the court round about, and hast placed the covering of the gate of the court,
9 and hast taken the anointing oil, and anointed the tabernacle, and all that  in it, and hallowed it, and all its vessels, and it hath been holy;
10 and thou hast anointed the altar of the burnt-offering, and all its vessels, and sanctified the altar, and the altar hath been most holy;
11 and thou hast anointed the laver and its base, and sanctified it.
12 `And thou hast brought near Aaron and his sons unto the opening of the tent of meeting, and hast bathed them with water;
13 and thou hast clothed Aaron with the holy garments, and anointed him, and sanctified him, and he hath acted as priest to Me.
14 `And his sons thou dost bring near, and hast clothed them with coats,
15 and anointed them as thou hast anointed their father, and they have acted as priests to Me, and their anointing hath been to be to them for a priesthood age-during, to their generations.'
16 And Moses doth according to all that Jehovah hath commanded him; so he hath done.
17 And it cometh to pass, in the first month, in the second year, in the first of the month, the tabernacle hath been raised up;
18 and Moses raiseth up the tabernacle, and setteth its sockets, and placeth its boards, and placeth its bars, and raiseth its pillars,
19 and spreadeth the tent over the tabernacle, and putteth the covering of the tent upon it above, as Jehovah hath commanded Moses.
20 And he taketh and putteth the testimony unto the ark, and setteth the staves on the ark, and putteth the mercy-seat on the ark above;
21 and bringeth in the ark unto the tabernacle, and placeth the vail of the covering, and covereth over the ark of the testimony, as Jehovah hath commanded Moses.
22 And he putteth the table in the tent of meeting, on the side of the tabernacle northward, at the outside of the vail,
23 and setteth in order upon it the arrangement of bread, before Jehovah, as Jehovah hath commanded Moses.
24 And he putteth the candlestick in the tent of meeting, over-against the table, on the side of the tabernacle southward,
25 and causeth the lamps to go up before Jehovah, as Jehovah hath commanded Moses.
26 And he setteth the golden altar in the tent of meeting, before the vail,
27 and maketh perfume on it -- spice-perfume -- as Jehovah hath commanded Moses.
28 And he setteth the covering of the opening to the tabernacle,
29 and the altar of the burnt-offering he hath set at the opening of the tabernacle of the tent of meeting, and causeth the burnt-offering to go up upon it, and the present, as Jehovah hath commanded Moses.
30 And he putteth the laver between the tent of meeting and the altar, and putteth water there for washing,
31 and Moses and Aaron and his sons have washed their hands and their feet at the same;
32 in their going in unto the tent of meeting, and in their drawing near unto the altar, they wash, as Jehovah hath commanded Moses.
33 And he raiseth up the court round about the tabernacle, and about the altar, and placeth the covering of the gate of the court; and Moses completeth the work.
34 And the cloud covereth the tent of meeting, and the honour of Jehovah hath filled the tabernacle;
35 and Moses hath not been able to go in unto the tent of meeting, for the cloud hath tabernacled on it, and the honour of Jehovah hath filled the tabernacle.
36 And in the going up of the cloud from off the tabernacle the sons of Israel journey in all their journeys;
37 and if the cloud go not up then they journey not, until the day of its going up:
38 for the cloud of Jehovah  on the tabernacle by day, and fire is in it by night, before the eyes of all the house of Israel in all their journeys.