1 `Rejoice not, O Israel, be not joyful like the peoples, For thou hast gone a-whoring from thy God, Thou hast loved a gift near all floors of corn.
2 Floor and wine-press do not delight them, And new wine doth fail in her,
3 They do not abide in the land of Jehovah, And turned back hath Ephraim  Egypt, And in Asshur an unclean thing they eat.
4 They pour not out wine to Jehovah, Nor are they sweet to Him, Their sacrifices  as bread of mourners to them, All eating it are unclean: For their bread  for themselves, It doth not come into the house of Jehovah.
5 What do ye at the day appointed? And at the day of Jehovah's festival?
6 For, lo, they have gone because of destruction, Egypt gathereth them, Moph burieth them, The desirable things of their silver, Nettles possess them -- a thorn  in their tents.
7 Come in have the days of inspection, Come in have the days of recompence, Israel doth know! a fool  the prophet, Mad  the man of the Spirit, Because of the abundance of thine iniquity, And great  the hatred.
8 Ephraim is looking  from My God, The prophet! a snare of a fowler  over all his ways, Hatred  in the house of his God.
9 They have gone deep -- have done corruptly, As  the days of Gibeah, He doth remember their iniquity, He doth inspect their sins.
10 As grapes in a wilderness I found Israel, As the first-fruit in a fig-tree, at its beginning, I have seen your fathers, They -- they have gone in  Baal-Peor, And are separated to a shameful thing, And are become abominable like their love.
11 Ephraim  as a fowl, Fly away doth their honour, without birth, And without womb, and without conception.
12 For though they nourish their sons, I have made them childless -- without man, Surely also, wo to them, when I turn aside from them.
13 Ephraim! when I have looked to the rock, Is planted in comeliness, And Ephraim  to bring out unto a slayer his sons.
14 Give to them, Jehovah -- what dost Thou give? Give to them miscarrying womb, and dry breasts.
15 All their evil  in Gilgal, Surely there I have hated them, Because of the evil of their doings, Out of My house I do drive them, I add not to love them, all their heads  apostates.
16 Ephraim hath been smitten, Their root hath dried up, fruit they yield not, Yea, though they bring forth, I have put to death the desired of their womb.
17 Reject them doth my God, Because they have not hearkened to Him, And they are wanderers among nations!