1 And it came to pass, while Apollos was at Corinth, Paul, having passed through the upper districts, came to Ephesus, and finding certain disciples,
2 he said to them, Did ye receive  Holy Spirit when ye had believed? And they  to him, We did not even hear if  Holy Spirit was .
3 And he said, To what then were ye baptised? And they said, To the baptism of John.
4 And Paul said, John indeed baptised  the baptism of repentance, saying to the people that they should believe on him that was coming after him, that is, on Jesus.
5 And when they heard that, they were baptised to the name of the Lord Jesus.
6 And Paul having laid  hands on them, the Holy Spirit came upon them, and they spoke with tongues and prophesied.
7 And all the men were about twelve.
8 And entering into the synagogue, he spoke boldly during three months, reasoning and persuading [the things] concerning the kingdom of God.
9 But when some were hardened and disbelieved, speaking evil of the way before the multitude, he left them and separated the disciples, reasoning daily in the school of Tyrannus.
10 And this took place for two years, so that all that inhabited Asia heard the word of the Lord, both Jews and Greeks.
11 And God wrought no ordinary miracles by the hands of Paul,
12 so that even napkins or aprons were brought from his body [and put] upon the sick, and the diseases left them, and the wicked spirits went out.
13 And certain of the Jewish exorcists also, who went about, took in hand to call upon those who had wicked spirits the name of the Lord Jesus, saying, I adjure you by Jesus, whom Paul preaches.
14 And there were certain , seven sons of Sceva, Jewish high priest, who were doing this.
15 But the wicked spirit answering said to them, Jesus I know, and Paul I am acquainted with; but *ye*, who are ye?
16 And the man in whom the wicked spirit was leaped upon them, and having mastered both, prevailed against them, so that they fled out of that house naked and wounded.
17 And this became known to all, both Jews and Greeks, who inhabited Ephesus, and fear fell upon all of them, and the name of the Lord Jesus was magnified.
18 And many of those that believed came confessing and declaring their deeds.
19 And many of those that practised curious arts brought their books [of charms] and burnt them before all. And they reckoned up the prices of them, and found it fifty thousand pieces of silver.
20 Thus with might the word of the Lord increased and prevailed.
21 And when these things were fulfilled, Paul purposed in his spirit to go to Jerusalem, passing through Macedonia and Achaia, saying, After I have been there I must see Rome also.
22 And having sent into Macedonia two of those ministering to him, Timotheus and Erastus, he remained himself awhile in Asia.
23 And there took place at that time no small disturbance about the way.
24 For a certain  by name Demetrius, a silver-beater, making silver temples of Artemis, brought no small gain to the artisans;
25 whom having brought together, and those who wrought in such things, he said, Men, ye know that our well-living arises from this work,
26 and ye see and hear that this Paul has persuaded and turned away a great crowd, not only of Ephesus, but almost of all Asia, saying that they are no gods which are made with hands.
27 Now not only there is danger for us that our business come into discredit, but also that the temple of the great goddess Artemis be counted for nothing, and that her greatness should be destroyed whom the whole of Asia and the world reveres.
28 And having heard , and being filled with rage, they cried out, saying, Great  Artemis of the Ephesians.
29 And the  city was filled with confusion, and they rushed with one accord to the theatre, having seized and carried off with  Gaius and Aristarchus, Macedonians, fellow-travellers of Paul.
30 But Paul intending to go in to the people, the disciples suffered him not;
31 and some of the Asiarchs also, who were his friends, sent to him and urged him not to throw himself into the theatre.
32 Different persons therefore cried out some different thing; for the assembly was tumultuous, and the most did not know for what cause they had come together.
33 But from among the crowd they put forward Alexander, the Jews pushing him forward. And Alexander, beckoning with his hand, would have made a defence to the people.
34 But, recognising that he was a Jew, there was one cry from all, shouting for about two hours, Great  Artemis of the Ephesians.
35 And the townclerk, having quieted the crowd, said, Ephesians, what man is there then who does not know that the city of the Ephesians is temple-keeper of Artemis the great, and of the  which fell down from heaven?
36 These things therefore being undeniable, it is necessary that ye should be calm and do nothing headlong.
37 For ye have brought these men, [who are] neither temple-plunderers, nor speak injuriously of your goddess.
38 If therefore Demetrius and the artisans who  with him have a matter against any one, the courts are being held, and there are proconsuls: let them accuse one another.
39 But if ye inquire anything concerning other matters, it will be settled in the regular assembly.
40 For also we are in danger to be put in accusation for sedition for this  of to-day, no cause existing in reference to which we shall be able to give a reason for this concourse.
41 And having said these things, he dismissed the assembly.