1 I composed the first discourse, O Theophilus, concerning all things which Jesus began both to do and to teach,
2 until that day in which, having by the Holy Spirit charged the apostles whom he had chosen, he was taken up;
3 to whom also he presented himself living, after he had suffered, with many proofs; being seen by them during forty days, and speaking of the things which concern the kingdom of God;
4 and, being assembled with , commanded them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to await the promise of the Father, which [said he] ye have heard of me.
5 For John indeed baptised with water, but *ye* shall be baptised with the Holy Spirit after now not many days.
6 They therefore, being come together, asked him saying, Lord, is it at this time that thou restorest the kingdom to Israel?
7 And he said to them, It is not yours to know times or seasons, which the Father has placed in his own authority;
8 but ye will receive power, the Holy Spirit having come upon you, and ye shall be my witnesses both in Jerusalem, and in all Judaea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth.
9 And having said these things he was taken up, they beholding , and a cloud received him out of their sight.
10 And as they were gazing into heaven, as he was going, behold, also two men stood by them in white clothing,
11 who also said, Men of Galilee, why do ye stand looking into heaven? This Jesus who has been taken up from you into heaven, shall thus come in the manner in which ye have beheld him going into heaven.
12 Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount called [the mount] of Olives, which is near Jerusalem, a sabbath-day's journey off.
13 And when they were come into [the city], they went up to the upper chamber, where were staying both Peter, and John, and James, and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James  of Alphaeus, and Simon the zealot, and Jude [the brother] of James.
14 These gave themselves all with one accord to continual prayer, with  women, and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with his brethren.
15 And in those days Peter, standing up in the midst of the brethren, said, (the crowd of names [who were] together  about a hundred and twenty,)
16 Brethren, it was necessary that the scripture should have been fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit spoke before, by the mouth of David, concerning Judas, who became guide to those who took Jesus;
17 for he was numbered amongst us, and had received a part in this service.
18 (This  then indeed got a field with  reward of iniquity, and, having fallen down headlong, burst in the midst, and all his bowels gushed out.
19 And it was known to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that that field was called in their own dialect Aceldama; that is, field of blood.)
20 For it is written in  book of Psalms, Let his homestead become desolate, and let there be no dweller in it; and, Let another take his overseership.
21 It is necessary therefore, that of the men who have assembled with us all  time in which the Lord Jesus came in and went out among us,
22 beginning from the baptism of John until the day in which he was taken up from us, one of these should be a witness with us of his resurrection.
23 And they appointed two, Joseph, who was called Barsabas, who had been surnamed Justus, and Matthias.
24 And they prayed, and said, Thou Lord, knower of the hearts of all, shew which one of these two thou hast chosen,
25 to receive the lot of this service and apostleship, from which Judas transgressing fell to go to his own place.
26 And they gave lots on them, and the lot fell on Matthias, and he was numbered with the eleven apostles.