1 And as they were speaking to the people, the priests and captain of the temple and the Sadducees came upon them,
2 being distressed on account of their teaching the people and preaching by Jesus the resurrection from among  dead;
3 and they laid hands on them, and put them in ward till the morrow; for it was already evening.
4 But many of those who had heard the word believed; and the number of the men had become  five thousand.
5 And it came to pass on the morrow that their rulers and elders and scribes were gathered together at Jerusalem,
6 and Annas the high priest, and Caiaphas, and John, and Alexander, and as many as were of  high priestly family;
7 and having placed them in the midst they inquired, In what power or in what name have *ye* done this?
8 Then Peter, filled with  Holy Spirit, said to them, Rulers of the people and elders [of Israel],
9 if *we* this day are called upon to answer as to the good deed  to the infirm man, how *he* has been healed,
10 be it known to you all, and to all the people of Israel, that in the name of Jesus Christ the Nazaraean, whom *ye* have crucified, whom God has raised from among  dead, by *him* this  stands here before you sound [in body].
11 *He* is the stone which has been set at nought by you the builders, which is become the corner stone.
12 And salvation is in none other, for neither is there another name under heaven which is given among men by which we must be saved.
13 But seeing the boldness of Peter and John, and perceiving that they were unlettered and uninstructed men, they wondered; and they recognised them that they were with Jesus.
14 And beholding the man who had been healed standing with them, they had nothing to reply;
15 but having commanded them to go out of the council they conferred with one another,
16 saying, What shall we do to these men? for that indeed an evident sign has come to pass through their means is manifest to all that inhabit Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it.
17 But that it be not further spread among the people, let us threaten them severely no longer to speak to any man in this name.
18 And having called them, they charged  not to speak at all nor teach in the name of Jesus.
19 But Peter and John answering said to them, If it be righteous before God to listen to you rather than to God, judge ye;
20 for as for us *we* cannot refrain from speaking of the things which we have seen and heard.
21 But they, having further threatened them, let them go, finding no way how they might punish them, on account of the people, because all glorified God for what had taken place;
22 for the man on whom this sign of healing had taken place was above forty years old.
23 And having been let go, they came to their own , and reported all that the chief priests and elders had said to them.
24 And they, having heard , lifted up  voice with one accord to God, and said, Lord, *thou* art the God who made the heaven and the earth and the sea, and all that is in them;
25 who hast said by the mouth of thy servant David, Why have  nations raged haughtily and  peoples meditated vain things?
26 The kings of the earth were there, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against his Christ.
27 For in truth against thy holy servant Jesus, whom thou hadst anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with  nations, and peoples of Israel, have been gathered together in this city
28 to do whatever thy hand and thy counsel had determined before should come to pass.
29 And now, Lord, look upon their threatenings, and give to thy bondmen with all boldness to speak thy word,
30 in that thou stretchest out thy hand to heal, and that signs and wonders take place through the name of thy holy servant Jesus.
31 And when they had prayed, the place in which they were assembled shook, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and spoke the word of God with boldness.
32 And the heart and soul of the multitude of those that had believed were one, and not one said that anything of what he possessed was his own, but all things were common to them;
33 and with great power did the apostles give witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was upon them all.
34 For neither was there any one in want among them; for as many as were owners of lands or houses, selling them, brought the price of what was sold
35 and laid it at the feet of the apostles; and distribution was made to each according as any one might have need.
36 And Joseph, who had been surnamed Barnabas by the apostles (which is, being interpreted, Son of consolation), a Levite, Cyprian by birth,
37 being possessed of land, having sold , brought the money and laid it at the feet of the apostles.