1 And Peter and John went up together into the temple at the hour of prayer, [which is] the ninth ;
2 and a certain man who was lame from his mother's womb was being carried, whom they placed every day at the gate of the temple called Beautiful, to ask alms of those who were going into the temple;
3 who, seeing Peter and John about to enter into the temple, asked to receive alms.
4 And Peter, looking stedfastly upon him with John, said, Look on us.
5 And he gave heed to them, expecting to receive something from them.
6 But Peter said, Silver and gold I have not; but what I have, this give I to thee: In the name of Jesus Christ the Nazaraean rise up and walk.
7 And having taken hold of him  the right hand he raised him up, and immediately his feet and ankle bones were made strong.
8 And leaping up he stood and walked, and entered with them into the temple, walking, and leaping, and praising God.
9 And all the people saw him walking and praising God;
10 and they recognised him, that it was *he* who sat for alms at the Beautiful gate of the temple; and they were filled with wonder and amazement at what had happened to him.
11 And as he held Peter and John, all the people ran together to them in the portico which is called Solomon's, greatly wondering.
12 And Peter, seeing it, answered the people, Men of Israel, why are ye astonished at this? or why do ye gaze on us as if we had by our own power or piety made him to walk?
13 The God of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, the God of our fathers, has glorified his servant Jesus, whom *ye* delivered up, and denied him in the presence of Pilate, when *he* had judged that he should be let go.
14 But *ye* denied the holy and righteous one, and asked that a man [that was] a murderer should be granted to you;
15 but the originator of life ye slew, whom God raised from among  dead, whereof *we* are witnesses.
16 And, by faith in his name, his name has made this  strong whom ye behold and know; and the faith which is by him has given him this complete soundness in the presence of you all.
17 And now, brethren, I know that ye did it in ignorance, as also your rulers;
18 but God has thus fulfilled what he had announced beforehand by the mouth of all the prophets, that his Christ should suffer.
19 Repent therefore and be converted, for the blotting out of your sins, so that times of refreshing may come from  presence of the Lord,
20 and he may send Jesus Christ, who was foreordained for you,
21 whom heaven indeed must receive till  times of  restoring of all things, of which God has spoken by the mouth of his holy prophets since time began.
22 Moses indeed said, A prophet shall  Lord your God raise up to you out of your brethren like me: him shall ye hear in everything whatsoever he shall say to you.
23 And it shall be that whatsoever soul shall not hear that prophet shall be destroyed from among the people.
24 And indeed all the prophets from Samuel and those in succession after , as many as have spoken, have announced also these days.
25 *Ye* are the sons of the prophets and of the covenant which God appointed to our fathers, saying to Abraham, And in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed.
26 To you first God, having raised up his servant, has sent him, blessing you in turning each one [of you] from your wickedness.