1 And when we got safe [to land] we then knew that the island was called Melita.
2 But the barbarians shewed us no common kindness; for, having kindled a fire, they took us all in because of the rain that was falling and because of the cold.
3 And Paul having gathered a  quantity of sticks together in a bundle and laid  on the fire, a viper coming out from the heat seized his hand.
4 And when the barbarians saw the beast hanging from his hand, they said to one another, This man is certainly a murderer, whom,  saved out of the sea, Nemesis has not allowed to live.
5 *He* however, having shaken off the beast into the fire, felt no harm.
6 But *they* expected that he would have swollen or fallen down suddenly dead. But when they had expected a long time and saw nothing unusual happen to him, changing their opinion, they said he was a god.
7 Now in the country surrounding that place were the lands belonging to the chief man of the island, by name Publius, who received us and gave  hospitality three days in a very friendly way.
8 And it happened that the father of Publius lay ill of fever and dysentery; to whom Paul entered in, and having prayed and laid his hands on him cured him.
9 But this having taken place, the rest also who had sicknesses in the island came and were healed:
10 who also honoured us with many honours, and on our leaving they made presents to us of what should minister to our wants.
11 And after three months we sailed in a ship which had wintered in the island, an Alexandrian, with  Dioscuri for its ensign.
12 And having come to Syracuse we remained three days.
13 Whence, going in a circuitous course, we arrived at Rhegium; and after one day, the wind having changed to south, on the second day we came to Puteoli,
14 where, having found brethren, we were begged to stay with them seven days. And thus we went to Rome.
15 And thence the brethren, having heard about us, came to meet us as far as Appii Forum and Tres Tabernae, whom when Paul saw, he thanked God and took courage.
16 And when we came to Rome, [the centurion delivered up the prisoners to the praetorian prefect, but] Paul was allowed to remain by himself with the soldier who kept him.
17 And it came to pass after three days, that he called together those who were the chief of the Jews; and when they had come together he said to them, Brethren, *I* having done nothing against the people or the customs of our forefathers, have been delivered a prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans,
18 who having examined me were minded to let me go, because there was nothing worthy of death in me.
19 But the Jews speaking against it, I was compelled to appeal to Caesar, not as having anything to accuse my nation of.
20 For this cause therefore I have called you to  to see and to speak to you; for on account of the hope of Israel I have this chain about me.
21 And they said to him, For our part, we have neither received letters from Judaea concerning thee, nor has any one of the brethren who has arrived reported or said anything evil concerning thee.
22 But we beg to hear of thee what thou thinkest, for as concerning this sect it is known to us that it is everywhere spoken against.
23 And having appointed him a day many came to him to the lodging, to whom he expounded, testifying of the kingdom of God, and persuading them concerning Jesus, both from the law of Moses and the prophets, from early morning to evening.
24 And some were persuaded of the things which were said, but some disbelieved.
25 And being disagreed among themselves they left; Paul having spoken one word, Well spoke the Holy Spirit through Esaias the prophet to our fathers,
26 saying, Go to this people, and say, Hearing ye shall hear and not understand, and seeing ye shall see and not perceive.
27 For the heart of this people has become fat, and they hear heavily with their ears, and they have closed their eyes; lest they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and be converted, and I should heal them.
28 Be it known to you therefore, that this salvation of God has been sent to the nations; *they* also will hear .
29 [And he having said this, the Jews went away, having great reasoning among themselves.]
30 And he remained two whole years in his own hired lodging, and received all who came to him,
31 preaching the kingdom of God, and teaching the things concerning the Lord Jesus Christ, with all freedom unhinderedly.