1 After these things he departed from Athens and went to Corinth. 
2 And he found a certain Jew named Aquila, a native of Pontus who had arrived recently from Italy along with Priscilla his wife, because Claudius had ordered all the Jews to depart from Rome, and he went to them. 
3 And because he was practicing the same trade, he stayed with them and worked, for they were tentmakers by trade. 
4 And he argued in the synagogue every Sabbath, attempting to persuade both Jews and Greeks.
5 Now when both Silas and Timothy came down from Macedonia, Paul began to be occupied with the message, solemnly testifying to the Jews that the Christ was Jesus. 
6 And when they resisted and reviled him, he shook out his clothes and said to them, "Your blood be on your own heads! I am guiltless! From now on I will go to the Gentiles!" 
7 And leaving there, he entered into the house of someone named Titius Justus, a worshiper of God whose house was next door to the synagogue. 
8 And Crispus, the ruler of the synagogue, believed in the Lord together with his whole household. And many of the Corinthians, when they heard about it, believed and were baptized. 
9 And the Lord said to Paul by a vision in the night, "Do not be afraid, but speak and do not keep silent, 
10 because I am with you and no one will attack you to harm you, because many people are mine in this city." 
11 So he stayed a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them.
12 Now when Gallio was proconsul of Achaia, the Jews rose up with one purpose against Paul and brought him before the judgment seat, 
13 saying, "This man is persuading people to worship God contrary to the law!" 
14 But when Paul was about to open his mouth, Gallio said to the Jews, "If it was some crime or wicked villainy, O Jews, I would have been justified in accepting your complaint. 
15 But if it is questions concerning a word and names and your own law, see to it yourselves! I do not wish to be a judge of these things." 
16 And he drove them away from the judgment seat. 
17 So they all seized Sosthenes, the ruler of the synagogue, and began beating him in front of the judgment seat. And none of these things was a concern to Gallio.
18 So Paul, after remaining many days longer, said farewell to the brothers and sailed away to Syria, and with him Priscilla and Aquila. He shaved his head at Cenchrea, because he had taken a vow.
19 So they arrived at Ephesus, and those he left behind there, but he himself entered into the synagogue and discussed with the Jews. 
20 And when they asked him to stay for a longer time, he did not give his consent, 
21 but saying farewell and telling them, "I will return to you again if God wills," he set sail from Ephesus.
22 And when he arrived at Caesarea, he went up and greeted the church, and went down to Antioch. 
23 And after spending some time there, he departed, traveling through one place after another in the Galatian region and Phrygia, strengthening all the disciples.
24 Now a certain Jew named Apollos, a native Alexandrian, arrived in Ephesus—an eloquent man who was well-versed in the scriptures. 
25 This man had been instructed in the way of the Lord, and being enthusiastic in spirit, he was speaking and teaching accurately the things about Jesus, although he knew only the baptism of John. 
26 And he began to speak boldly in the synagogue, but when Priscilla and Aquila heard him, they took him aside and explained the way of God to him more accurately. 
27 And when he wanted to cross over to Achaia, the brothers encouraged him and wrote to the disciples to welcome him. When he arrived, he assisted greatly those who had believed through grace. 
28 For he was vigorously refuting the Jews in public, demonstrating through the scriptures that the Christ was Jesus.