1 Now after the turmoil had ceased, Paul summoned the disciples, and after encouraging them, he said farewell and departed to travel to Macedonia. 
2 And after he had gone through those regions and encouraged them at length, he came to Greece 
3 and stayed three months. Because a plot was made against him by the Jews as he was about to set sail for Syria, he came to a decision to return through Macedonia. 
4 And Sopater son of Pyrrhus from Berea, and Aristarchus and Secundus from Thessalonica, and Gaius from Derbe, and Timothy, and Tychicus and Trophimus from Asia, were accompanying him. 
5 And these had gone on ahead and were waiting for us in Troas. 
6 And we sailed away from Philippi after the days of Unleavened Bread and came to them at Troas within five days, where we stayed seven days.
7 And on the first day of the week, when we had assembled to break bread, Paul began conversing with them, because he was going to leave on the next day, and he extended his message until midnight. 
8 Now there were quite a few lamps in the upstairs room where we were gathered. 
9 And a certain young man named Eutychus who was sitting in the window was sinking into a deep sleep while Paul was conversing at length. Being overcome by sleep, he fell down from the third story and was picked up dead. 
10 But Paul went down and threw himself on him, and putting his arms around him, said, "Do not be distressed, for his life is in him." 
11 So he went up and broke bread, and when he had eaten and talked for a long time, until dawn, then he departed. 
12 And they led the youth away alive, and were greatly comforted.
13 But we went on ahead to the ship and put out to sea for Assos, intending to take Paul on board there. For having made arrangements in this way, he himself was intending to travel by land. 
14 And when he met us at Assos, we took him on board and went to Mitylene. 
15 And we sailed from there on the next day, and arrived opposite Chios. And on the next day we approached Samos, and on the following day we came to Miletus. 
16 For Paul had decided to sail past Ephesus so that he would not be having to spend time in Asia. For he was hurrying if it could be possible for him to be in Jerusalem on the day of Pentecost.
17 And from Miletus he sent word to Ephesus and summoned the elders of the church. 
18 And when they came to him, he said to them, "You know from the first day on which I set foot in Asia how I was the whole time with you—
19 serving the Lord with all humility and with tears, and with the trials that happened to me through the plots of the Jews—
20 how I did not shrink from proclaiming to you anything that would be profitable, and from teaching you in public and from house to house, 
21 testifying both to Jews and to Greeks with respect to repentance toward God and faith in our Lord Jesus.
22 "And now behold, bound by the Spirit I am traveling to Jerusalem, not knowing the things that will happen to me there, 
23 except that the Holy Spirit testifies to me in town after town, saying that bonds and persecutions await me. 
24 But I consider my life as worth nothing to myself, in order to finish my mission and the ministry that I received from the Lord Jesus, to testify to the gospel of the grace of God.
25 "And now behold, I know that all of you, among whom I went about proclaiming the kingdom, will see my face no more. 
26 Therefore I testify to you on this very day that I am guiltless of the blood of all of you, 
27 for I did not shrink from proclaiming to you the whole purpose of God. 
28 Be on guard for yourselves and for all the flock among which the Holy Spirit has appointed you as overseers, to shepherd the church of God which he obtained through the blood of his own Son. 
29 I know that after my departure fierce wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock. 
30 And from among you yourselves men will arise, speaking perversions of the truth in order to draw away the disciples after them. 
31 Therefore be on the alert, remembering that night and day for three years I did not stop warning each one of you with tears.
32 "And now I entrust you to God and to the message of his grace, which is able to build you up and to give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified. 
33 I have desired no one's silver or gold or clothing! 
34 You yourselves know that these hands served to meet my needs and the needs of those who were with me. 
35 I have shown you with respect to all things that by working hard in this way it is necessary to help those who are in need, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus that he himself said, "It is more blessed to give than to receive."
36 And when he had said these things, he fell to his knees and prayed with them all. 
37 And there was considerable weeping by all, and hugging Paul, they kissed him, 
38 especially distressed at the statement that he had said, that they were going to see his face no more. And they accompanied him to the ship.