1 And while they were speaking to the people, the priests and the captain of the temple and the Sadducees approached them, 
2 greatly annoyed because they were teaching the people and proclaiming in Jesus the resurrection from the dead. 
3 And they laid hands on them and put them in custody until the next day, because it was already evening. 
4 But many of those who listened to the message believed, and the number of the men was approximately five thousand.
5 And it happened that on the next day, their rulers and elders and scribes came together in Jerusalem, 
6 and Annas the high priest, and Caiaphas and John and Alexander, and all those who were from the high priest's family. 
7 And they made them stand in their midst and began to ask, "By what power or by what name did you do this?" 
8 Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, "Rulers of the people and elders, 
9 if we are being examined today concerning a good deed done to a sick man—by what means this man was healed—
10 let it be known to all of you and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead—by him this man stands before you healthy! 
11 This one is the stone that was rejected by you, the builders, that has become the cornerstone. 
12 And there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven that is given among people by which we must be saved."
13 Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and understood that they were uneducated and untrained men, they were astonished, and recognized them, that they had been with Jesus. 
14 And because they saw the man who had been healed standing there with them, they had nothing to say in return. 
15 But after they had ordered them to go outside the Sanhedrin, they began to confer with one another, 
16 saying, "What should we do with these men? For that a remarkable sign has taken place through them is evident to all those who live in Jerusalem, and we are not able to deny it! 
17 But in order that it may not spread much further among the people, let us warn them to speak no more in this name to anyone at all." 
18 And they called them back and commanded them not to speak or to teach at all in the name of Jesus. 
19 But Peter and John answered and said to them, "Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you rather than God, you decide! 
20 For we are not able to refrain from speaking about the things that we have seen and heard." 
21 So after threatening them further, they released them, finding no way to punish them on account of the people, because they were all praising God for what had happened. 
22 For the man on whom this sign of healing had been performed was more than forty years old.
23 And when they were released, they went to their own people and reported all that the chief priests and the elders had said to them. 
24 And when they heard it, they lifted their voices with one mind to God and said, "Master, you are the one who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and all the things in them, 
25 the one who said by the Holy Spirit through the mouth of our father David, your servant, 'Why do the nations rage, and the peoples conspire in vain?
26 The kings of the earth stood opposed, and the rulers assembled together at the same place, against the Lord and against his Christ.'
27 For in truth both Herod and Pontius Pilate, together with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel, assembled together in this city against your holy servant Jesus whom you anointed, 
28 to do all that your hand and plan had predestined to take place. 
29 And now, Lord, concern yourself with their threats and grant your slaves to speak your message with all boldness, 
30 as you extend your hand to heal and signs and wonders are performed through the name of your holy servant Jesus." 
31 And when they had prayed, the place in which they were gathered was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak the word of God with boldness.
32 Now the group of those who believed were one heart and soul, and no one said anything of what belonged to him was his own, but all things were theirs in common. 
33 And with great power the apostles were giving testimony to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was on them all. 
34 For there was not even anyone needy among them, because all those who were owners of plots of land or houses were selling them and bringing the proceeds of the things that were sold 
35 and placing them at the feet of the apostles. And it was being distributed to each as anyone had need. 
36 So Joseph, who was called Barnabas by the apostles (which is translated "son of encouragement"), a Levite of Cyprus by nationality, 
37 sold a field that belonged to him and brought the money and placed it at the feet of the apostles.