1 Now in these days, as the disciples were increasing in number, a complaint arose by the Greek-speaking Jews against the Hebraic Jews because their widows were being overlooked in the daily distribution of food. 
2 So the twelve summoned the community of disciples and said, "It is not desirable that we neglect the word of God to serve tables. 
3 So, brothers, select from among you seven men of good reputation, full of the Spirit and wisdom, whom we will put in charge of this need. 
4 But we will devote ourselves to prayer and to the ministry of the word." 
5 And the statement pleased the whole group, and they chose Stephen (a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit), and Philip, and Prochorus, and Nicanor, and Timon, and Parmenas, and Nicolaus (a convert from Antioch), 
6 whom they stood before the apostles. And they prayed and placed their hands on them.
7 And the word of God kept spreading, and the number of disciples in Jerusalem was increasing greatly, and a large number of priests began obeying the faith.
8 Now Stephen, full of grace and power, was performing great wonders and signs among the people. 
9 But some of those from the Synagogue of the Freedmen (as it was called), both Cyrenians and Alexandrians, and those from Cilicia and Asia, stood up and disputed with Stephen. 
10 And they were not able to resist the wisdom and the Spirit with which he was speaking. 
11 Then they secretly instigated men who said, "We have heard him speaking blasphemous words against Moses and God!" 
12 And they incited the people and the elders and the scribes, and they came up and seized him and brought him to the Sanhedrin. 
13 And they put forward false witnesses who said, "This man does not stop speaking words against the holy place and the law! 
14 For we have heard him saying that this Nazarene Jesus will destroy this place and will change the customs that Moses handed down to us." 
15 And as they looked intently at him, all those who were sitting in the Sanhedrin saw his face was like the face of an angel.