1 Now after they traveled through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews. 
2 And as was his custom, Paul went in to them and on three Sabbath days he discussed with them from the scriptures, 
3 explaining and demonstrating that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead, and saying, "This Jesus whom I am proclaiming to you is the Christ." 
4 And some of them were persuaded and joined Paul and Silas, and also a large number of God-fearing Greeks and not a few of the prominent women.
5 But the Jews were filled with jealousy and, taking along some worthless men from the rabble in the marketplace and forming a mob, threw the city into an uproar. And attacking Jason's house, they were looking for them to bring them out to the popular assembly. 
6 And when they did not find them, they dragged Jason and some brothers before the city officials, shouting, "These people who have stirred up trouble throughout the world have come here also, 
7 whom Jason has entertained as guests! And these people are all acting contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying there is another king, Jesus!" 
8 And they threw the crowd into confusion, and the city officials who heard these things. 
9 And after taking money as security from Jason and the rest, they released them.
10 Now the brothers sent away both Paul and Silas at once, during the night, to Berea. They went into the synagogue of the Jews when they arrived. 
11 Now these were more open-minded than those in Thessalonica. They accepted the message with all eagerness, examining the scriptures every day to see if these things were so. 
12 Therefore many of them believed, and not a few of the prominent Greek women and men. 
13 But when the Jews from Thessalonica found out that the message of God had been proclaimed by Paul in Berea also, they came there too, inciting and stirring up the crowds. 
14 So then the brothers sent Paul away at once to go to the sea, and both Silas and Timothy remained there. 
15 And those who conducted Paul brought him as far as Athens, and after receiving an order for Silas and Timothy that they should come to him as soon as possible, they went away.
16 Now while Paul was waiting for them in Athens, his spirit was provoked within him when he observed the city was full of idols. 
17 So he was discussing in the synagogue with the Jews and the God-fearing Gentiles, and in the marketplace every day with those who happened to be there. 
18 And even some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers were conversing with him, and some were saying, "What does this babbler want to say?" But others said, "He appears to be a proclaimer of foreign deities," because he was proclaiming the good news about Jesus and the resurrection. 
19 And they took hold of him and brought him to the Areopagus, saying, "May we learn what is this new teaching being proclaimed by you? 
20 For you are bringing some astonishing things to our ears. Therefore we want to know what these things mean." 
21 (Now all the Athenians and the foreigners who stayed there used to spend their time in nothing else than telling something or listening to something new.)
22 So Paul stood there in the middle of the Areopagus and said, "Men of Athens, I see you are very religious in every respect. 
23 For as I was passing through and observing carefully your objects of worship, I even found an altar on which was inscribed, 'To an unknown God.' Therefore what you worship without knowing it, this I proclaim to you—
24 the God who made the world and all the things in it. This one, being Lord of heaven and earth, does not live in temples made by human hands, 
25 nor is he served by human hands as if he needed anything, because he himself gives to everyone life and breath and everything. 
26 And he made from one man every nation of humanity to live on all the face of the earth, determining their fixed times and the fixed boundaries of their habitation, 
27 to search for God, if perhaps indeed they might feel around for him and find him. And indeed he is not far away from each one of us, 
28 for in him we live and move and exist, as even some of your own poets have said: 'For we also are his offspring.' 
29 Therefore, because we are offspring of God, we ought not to think the divine being is like gold or silver or stone, an image formed by human skill and thought. 
30 Therefore although God has overlooked the times of ignorance, he now commands all people everywhere to repent, 
31 because he has set a day on which he is going to judge the world in righteousness by the man who he has appointed, having provided proof to everyone by raising him from the dead." 
32 Now when they heard about the resurrection of the dead, some scoffed, but others said, "We will hear you about this again also." 
33 So Paul went out from the midst of them. 
34 But some people joined him and believed, among whom also were Dionysius the Areopagite and a woman named Damaris and others with them.