1 But Saul, still breathing threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest 
2 and asked for letters from him to the synagogues in Damascus, so that if he found any who were of the Way, both men and women, he could bring them tied up to Jerusalem. 
3 Now as he proceeded, it happened that when he approached Damascus, suddenly a light from heaven flashed around him. 
4 And falling to the ground, he heard a voice saying to him, "Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?" 
5 So he said, "Who are you, Lord?" And he said, "I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting! 
6 But get up and enter into the city, and it will be told to you what you must do." 
7 (Now the men who were traveling together with him stood speechless, because they heard the voice but saw no one.) 
8 So Saul got up from the ground, but although his eyes were open he could see nothing. And leading him by the hand, they brought him into Damascus. 
9 And he was unable to see for three days, and he did not eat or drink.
10 Now there was a certain disciple in Damascus named Ananias, and the Lord said to him in a vision, "Ananias!" And he said, "Behold, here I am, Lord!" 
11 And the Lord said to him, "Get up, go to the street called 'Straight' and in the house of Judas look for a man named Saul from Tarsus. For behold, he is praying, 
12 and he has seen in a vision a man named Ananias coming in and placing hands on him so that he may regain his sight." 
13 But Ananias replied, "Lord, I have heard from many people about this man, how much harm he has done to your saints in Jerusalem, 
14 and here he has authority from the chief priests to tie up all who call upon your name!" 
15 But the Lord said to him, "Go, because this man is my chosen instrument to carry my name before Gentiles and kings and the sons of Israel. 
16 For I will show him how much he must suffer for the sake of my name." 
17 So Ananias departed and entered into the house, and placing his hands on him, he said, "Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus, who appeared to you on the road by which you came, has sent me so that you may regain your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit." 
18 And immediately something like scales fell from his eyes and he regained his sight and got up and was baptized, 
19 and after taking food, he regained his strength. And he was with the disciples in Damascus several days.
20 And immediately he began proclaiming Jesus in the synagogues: "This one is the Son of God!" 
21 And all who heard him were amazed, and were saying, "Is this not the one who was wreaking havoc in Jerusalem on those who call upon this name, and had come here for this reason, that he could bring them tied up to the chief priests?" 
22 But Saul was increasing in strength even more, and was confounding the Jews who lived in Damascus by proving that this one is the Christ.
23 And when many days had elapsed, the Jews plotted to do away with him. 
24 But their plot became known to Saul, and they were also watching the gates both day and night so that they could do away with him. 
25 But his disciples took him at night and let him down through the wall by lowering him in a basket.
26 And when he arrived in Jerusalem, he was attempting to associate with the disciples, and they were all afraid of him, because they did not believe that he was a disciple. 
27 But Barnabas took him and brought him to the apostles and related to them how he had seen the Lord on the road and that he had spoken to him, and how in Damascus he had spoken boldly in the name of Jesus. 
28 And he was going in and going out among them in Jerusalem, speaking boldly in the name of the Lord. 
29 And he was speaking and debating with the Greek-speaking Jews, but they were trying to do away with him. 
30 And when the brothers found out, they brought him down to Caesarea and sent him away to Tarsus.
31 Then the church throughout all of Judea and Galilee and Samaria had peace, being strengthened. And living in the fear of the Lord and the encouragement of the Holy Spirit, it was increasing in numbers.
32 Now it happened that as Peter was traveling through all the places, he also came down to the saints who lived in Lydda. 
33 And he found there a certain man named Aeneas who was paralyzed, who had been lying on a mat for eight years. 
34 And Peter said to him, "Aeneas, Jesus Christ heals you! Get up and make your bed yourself!" And immediately he got up. 
35 And all those who lived in Lydda and Sharon saw him, who all indeed turned to the Lord.
36 Now in Joppa there was a certain female disciple named Tabitha (which translated means "Dorcas"). She was full of good deeds and charitable giving which she was constantly doing. 
37 Now it happened that in those days after becoming sick, she died. And after washing her, they placed her in an upstairs room. 
38 And because Lydda was near Joppa, the disciples, when they heard that Peter was in Lydda, sent two men to him, urging, "Do not delay to come to us!" 
39 So Peter got up and accompanied them. When he arrived, they brought him up to the upstairs room, and all the widows came to him, weeping and showing him tunics and other clothing that Dorcas used to make while she was with them. 
40 But Peter sent them all outside, and, falling to his knees, he prayed. And turning toward the body, he said, "Tabitha, get up!" And she opened her eyes, and when she saw Peter, she sat up. 
41 And he gave her his hand and raised her up. And he called the saints and the widows and presented her alive. 
42 And it became known throughout all Joppa, and many believed in the Lord. 
43 And it happened that he stayed many days in Joppa with a certain Simon, a tanner.