1 And after we were brought safely through, then we found out that the island was called Malta. 
2 And the local inhabitants showed extraordinary kindness to us, for they lit a fire and welcomed us all, because of the rain that had begun and because of the cold. 
3 And when Paul had gathered a large number of sticks and was placing them on the fire, a viper came out because of the heat and fastened itself on his hand. 
4 And when the local people saw the creature hanging from his hand, they began saying to one another, "Doubtless this man is a murderer whom, although he was rescued from the sea, Justice has not permitted to live!" 
5 He, in turn, shook off the creature into the fire and suffered no harm. 
6 But they were expecting that he was going to swell up or suddenly to fall down dead. So after they had waited for a long time and saw nothing unusual happen to him, they changed their minds and began saying that he was a god.
7 Now in the regions around that place were fields belonging to the chief official of the island, named Publius, who welcomed us and entertained us hospitably for three days. 
8 And it happened that the father of Publius was lying down, afflicted with fever and dysentery. Paul went to him and after praying, he placed his hands on him and healed him. 
9 And after this had taken place, the rest of those on the island who had diseases were coming and being healed also. 
10 They also honored us with many honors, and when we were putting out to sea, they gave us the things we needed.
11 Now after three months we put out to sea in a ship that had wintered at the island, an Alexandrian one with the twin gods Castor and Pollux as its insignia. 
12 And putting in at Syracuse, we stayed there three days. 
13 From there we got underway and arrived at Rhegium, and after one day a south wind came up and on the second day we came to Puteoli, 
14 where we found brothers, and were implored to stay with them seven days. And in this way we came to Rome. 
15 And from there the brothers, when they heard the news about us, came to meet us as far as the Forum of Appius and Three Taverns. When he saw them, Paul gave thanks to God and took courage. 
16 And when we entered into Rome, Paul was allowed to stay by himself with the soldier who was guarding him.
17 Now it happened that after three days, he called together those who were the most prominent of the Jews. And when they had assembled, he said to them, "Men and brothers, although I had done nothing against our people or the customs of our fathers, from Jerusalem I was delivered as a prisoner into the hands of the Romans, 
18 who, when they had examined me, were wanting to release me, because there was no basis for an accusation worthy of death with me. 
19 But because the Jews objected, I was forced to appeal to Caesar (not as if I had any charge to bring against my own people). 
20 Therefore for this reason I have requested to see you and to speak with you, for because of the hope of Israel I am wearing this chain!" 
21 And they said to him, "We have received no letters about you from Judea, nor has any of the brothers come and reported or spoken anything evil about you. 
22 But we would like to hear from you what you think, for concerning this sect it is known to us that it is spoken against everywhere."
23 And when they had set a day with him, many more came to him at his lodging place, to whom he was explaining from early in the morning until evening, testifying about the kingdom of God and attempting to convince them about Jesus from both the law of Moses and the prophets. 
24 And some were convinced by what was said, but others refused to believe. 
25 So being in disagreement with one another, they began to leave after Paul made one statement: "The Holy Spirit spoke rightly through the prophet Isaiah to your fathers, 
26 saying, 'Go to this people and say, "You will keep on hearing and will never understand, and you will keep on seeing and will never perceive.
27 For the heart of this people has become dull, and with their ears they hear with difficulty, and they have shut their eyes, lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and turn, and I would heal them."'
28 Therefore let it be known to you that this salvation of God has been sent to the Gentiles. They also will listen!"

30 So he stayed two whole years in his own rented house, and welcomed all who came to him, 
31 proclaiming the kingdom of God and teaching the things concerning the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness, without hindrance.