1 And it happened that while Apollos was in Corinth, Paul traveled through the inland regions and came to Ephesus and found some disciples. 
2 And he said to them, "Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed?" And they said to him, "But we have not even heard that there is a Holy Spirit!" 
3 And he said, "Into what then were you baptized?" And they said, "Into the baptism of John." 
4 And Paul said, "John baptized with a baptism of repentance, telling the people that they should believe in the one who was to come after him—that is, in Jesus." 
5 And when they heard this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. 
6 And when Paul laid hands on them, the Holy Spirit came upon them and they began to speak in tongues and to prophesy. 
7 (Now the total number of men was about twelve.)
8 So he entered into the synagogue and was speaking boldly for three months, discussing and attempting to convince them concerning the kingdom of God. 
9 But when some became hardened and were disobedient, reviling the Way before the congregation, he departed from them and took away the disciples, leading discussions every day in the lecture hall of Tyrannus. 
10 And this took place for two years, so that all who lived in Asia heard the word of the Lord, both Jews and Greeks.
11 And God was performing extraordinary miracles by the hands of Paul, 
12 so that even handkerchiefs or work aprons that had touched his skin were carried away to those who were sick, and their diseases left them and the evil spirits came out of them. 
13 But some itinerant Jewish exorcists also attempted to pronounce the name of the Lord Jesus over those who had evil spirits, saying, "I adjure you by Jesus whom Paul preaches!" 
14 (Now seven sons of a certain Sceva, a Jewish chief priest, were doing this.) 
15 But the evil spirit answered and said to them, "Jesus I know, and Paul I am acquainted with, but who are you?" 
16 And the man who had the evil spirit leaped on them, subdued all of them, and prevailed against them, so that they ran away from that house naked and wounded. 
17 And this became known to all who lived in Ephesus, both Jews and Greeks, and fear fell upon them all, and the name of the Lord Jesus was exalted. 
18 And many of those who had believed came, confessing and disclosing their practices, 
19 and many of those who practiced magic brought together their books and burned them up in the sight of everyone. And they counted up their value and found it was fifty thousand silver coins. 
20 In this way the word of the Lord was growing in power and was prevailing.
21 Now when these things were completed, Paul resolved in the Spirit to go to Jerusalem, passing through Macedonia and Achaia, saying, "After I have been there, it is necessary for me to see Rome also." 
22 So after sending two of those who were assisting him, Timothy and Erastus, to Macedonia, he himself stayed some time in Asia.
23 Now there happened at that time no little disturbance concerning the Way. 
24 For someone named Demetrius, a silversmith who made silver replicas of the temple of Artemis, was bringing no little business to the craftsmen. 
25 These he gathered together, and the workers occupied with such things, and said, "Men, you know that from this business we get our prosperity, 
26 and you see and hear that not only in Ephesus but in almost all of Asia this man Paul has persuaded and turned away a large crowd by saying that the gods made by hands are not gods. 
27 So not only is there a danger this line of business of ours will come into disrepute, but also the temple of the great goddess Artemis will be regarded as nothing—and she is about to be brought down even from her grandeur, she whom the whole of Asia and the entire world worship!"
28 And when they heard this and became full of rage, they began to shout, saying, "Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!" 
29 And the city was filled with the tumult, and with one purpose they rushed into the theater, seizing Gaius and Aristarchus, Macedonians who were traveling companions of Paul. 
30 But when Paul wanted to enter into the popular assembly, the disciples would not let him. 
31 And even some of the Asiarchs who were his friends sent word to him and were urging him not to risk himself by going into the theater. 
32 So some were shouting one thing and some another, for the assembly was in confusion, and the majority did not know why they had assembled. 
33 And some of the crowd advised Alexander, when the Jews put him forward. But Alexander, motioning with his hand, was wanting to defend himself to the popular assembly. 
34 But when they recognized that he was a Jew, they were shouting with one voice from all of them for about two hours, "Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!" 
35 And when the city secretary had quieted the crowd, he said, "Ephesian men, for who is there among men who does not know the Ephesian city is honorary temple keeper of the great Artemis and of her image fallen from heaven? 
36 Therefore because these things are undeniable, it is necessary that you be quiet and do nothing rash! 
37 For you have brought these men here who are neither temple robbers nor blasphemers of our goddess. 
38 If then Demetrius and the craftsmen who are with him have a complaint against anyone, the court days are observed and there are proconsuls—let them bring charges against one another! 
39 But if you desire anything further, it will be settled in the lawful assembly. 
40 For indeed we are in danger of being accused of rioting concerning today, since there is no cause in relation to which we will be able to give an account concerning this disorderly gathering!" And when he had said these things, he dismissed the assembly.
