1 I produced the former account, O Theophilus, about all that Jesus began to do and to teach, 
2 until the day he was taken up, after he had given orders through the Holy Spirit to the apostles whom he had chosen, 
3 to whom he also presented himself alive after he suffered, with many convincing proofs, appearing to them over a period of forty days and speaking the things about the kingdom of God. 
4 And while he was with them, he commanded them, "Do not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for what was promised by the Father, which you heard about from me. 
5 For John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now."
6 So when they had come together, they began asking him, saying, "Lord, is it at this time you are restoring the kingdom to Israel?" 
7 But he said to them, "It is not for you to know the times or seasons that the Father has set by his own authority. 
8 But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the farthest part of the earth." 
9 And after he had said these things, while they were watching, he was taken up, and a cloud received him from their sight. 
10 And as they were staring into the sky while he was departing, behold, two men in white clothing stood by them 
11 who also said, "Men of Galilee, why do you stand there looking into the sky? This Jesus who was taken up from you into heaven like this will come back in the same way you saw him departing into heaven!"
12 Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mountain that is called Olive Grove which is near Jerusalem, a Sabbath day's journey away. 
13 And when they had entered, they went up to the upstairs room where they were staying—Peter and John and James and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James son of Alphaeus and Simon the Zealot and Judas son of James. 
14 All these were busily engaged with one mind in prayer, together with the women and Mary the mother of Jesus and with his brothers.
15 And in those days Peter stood up in the midst of the brothers (and it was a crowd of persons of about one hundred twenty at the same place) and said, 
16 "Men and brothers, it was necessary that the scripture be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit proclaimed beforehand through the mouth of David concerning Judas, who became a guide to those who arrested Jesus, 
17 because he was counted among us and received a share in this ministry." 
18 (Now this man acquired a field for the wages of his wickedness, and falling headlong, he burst open in the middle and all his intestines spilled out. 
19 And it became known to all who live in Jerusalem, so that that field was called in their own language "Akeldama," that is, "Field of Blood.") 
20 "For it is written in the book of Psalms, 'Let his residence become deserted, and let there be no one to live in it,' and, 'Let another person take his position.'
21 Therefore it is necessary for one of the men who have accompanied us during all the time in which the Lord Jesus went in and went out among us, 
22 beginning from the baptism of John until the day on which he was taken up from us—one of these men must become a witness of his resurrection together with us." 
23 And they proposed two men, Joseph called Barsabbas (who was called Justus) and Matthias. 
24 And they prayed and said, "You, Lord, who know the hearts of all, show clearly which one of these two you have chosen 
25 to take the place in this ministry and apostleship from which Judas turned aside to depart to his own place." 
26 And they cast lots for them, and the lot fell on Matthias, and he was added to serve with the eleven apostles.