1 And after five days the high priest Ananias came down with some elders and an attorney, a certain Tertullus, all of whom brought charges against Paul to the governor. 
2 And when he had been summoned, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying, "We have experienced much peace through you, and reforms are taking place in this nation through your foresight. 
3 Both in every way and everywhere we acknowledge this, most excellent Felix, with all gratitude. 
4 But so that I may not impose on you for longer, I implore you to hear us briefly with your customary graciousness. 
5 For we have found this man to be a public menace and one who causes riots among all the Jews throughout the Roman Empire and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes, 
6 who even attempted to desecrate the temple, and we arrested him. 

8 When you yourself examine him you will be able to find out from him about all these things of which we are accusing him." 
9 And the Jews also joined in the attack, asserting these things were so.
10 And when the governor gestured for him to speak, Paul replied, "Because I know you have been a judge over this nation for many years, I defend myself cheerfully with respect to the things concerning myself. 
11 You can ascertain that it has not been more than twelve days since I went up to Jerusalem to worship. 
12 And neither did they find me arguing with anyone or making a crowd develop in the temple courts nor in the synagogues nor throughout the city. 
13 Nor can they prove the things to you concerning which they are now accusing me. 
14 But I do confess this to you, that according to the Way (which they call a sect), so I worship the God of our fathers, believing all things that are in accordance with the law and that are written in the prophets, 
15 having a hope in God which these men also themselves await: that there is going to be a resurrection of both the righteous and the unrighteous. 
16 For this reason also I myself always do my best to have a clear conscience toward God and people. 
17 So after many years, I came to practice charitable giving and offerings to my people, 
18 in which they found me purified in the temple courts, not with a crowd or with a disturbance. 
19 But there are some Jews from Asia who ought to be present before you and bring charges against me, if they have anything against me, 
20 or these men themselves should say what crime they found when I stood before the Sanhedrin, 
21 other than concerning this one declaration that I shouted while standing there before them: 'I am being judged before you today concerning the resurrection of the dead!'"
22 But Felix, because he understood the facts concerning the Way more accurately, put them off, saying, "When Lysias the military tribune comes down, I will decide your case." 
23 He ordered the centurion for him to be guarded and to have some freedom, and in no way to prevent any of his own people from serving him.
24 And after some days, when Felix arrived with his wife Drusilla, who was Jewish, he sent for Paul and listened to him concerning faith in Christ Jesus. 
25 And while he was discussing about righteousness and self control and the judgment that is to come, Felix became afraid and replied, "Go away for the present, and when I have an opportunity, I will summon you." 
26 At the same time he was also hoping that money would be given to him by Paul. For this reason also he sent for him as often as possible and talked with him. 
27 And when two years had passed, Felix received as successor Porcius Festus. And because he wanted to do a favor for the Jews, Felix left Paul behind as a prisoner.