1 So Agrippa said to Paul, "It is permitted for you to speak for yourself." Then Paul extended his hand and began to defend himself:
2 "Concerning all the things of which I am accused by the Jews, King Agrippa, I consider myself fortunate that before you I am about to defend myself today, 
3 because you are especially acquainted with both all the customs and controversial questions with respect to the Jews. Therefore I beg you to listen to me with patience.
4 "Now all the Jews know my manner of life from my youth, that had taken place from the beginning among my own people and in Jerusalem, 
5 having known me for a long time, if they are willing to testify, that in accordance with the strictest party of our religion I lived as a Pharisee. 
6 And now I stand here on trial on the basis of hope in the promise made by God to our fathers, 
7 to which our twelve tribes hope to attain as they earnestly serve him night and day. Concerning this hope I am being accused by the Jews, O king! 
8 Why is it thought incredible by you people that God raises the dead? 
9 Indeed, I myself thought it was necessary to do many things opposed to the name of Jesus the Nazarene, 
10 which I also did in Jerusalem, and not only did I lock up many of the saints in prison, having received authority from the chief priests, but also when they were being executed, I cast my vote against them. 
11 And throughout all the synagogues I punished them often and tried to force them to blaspheme, and because I was enraged at them beyond measure, I was pursuing them even as far as to foreign cities. 
12 In this activity I was traveling to Damascus with the authority and full power of the chief priests. 
13 In the middle of the day along the road, O king, I saw a light from heaven, more than the brightness of the sun, shining around me and those who were traveling with me. 
14 And when we had all fallen to the ground, I heard a voice saying to me in the Aramaic language, 'Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? It is hard for you to kick against the goads!' 
15 So I said, 'Who are you, Lord?' And the Lord said, 'I am Jesus whom you are persecuting. 
16 But get up and stand on your feet, because for this reason I have appeared to you, to appoint you a servant and witness both to the things in which you saw me and to the things in which I will appear to you, 
17 rescuing you from the people and from the Gentiles to whom I am sending you, 
18 to open their eyes so that they may turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God, so that they may receive forgiveness of sins and a share among those who are sanctified by faith in me.'
19 "Therefore, O King Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision, 
20 but to those in Damascus first, and in Jerusalem and all the region of Judea and to the Gentiles, I proclaimed that they should repent and turn to God, doing deeds worthy of repentance. 
21 On account of these things the Jews seized me in the temple courts and were attempting to kill me. 
22 Therefore I have experienced help from God until this day, and I stand here testifying to both small and great, saying nothing except what both the prophets and Moses have said were going to happen, 
23 that the Christ was to suffer and that as the first of the resurrection from the dead, he was going to proclaim light both to the people and to the Gentiles."
24 And as he was saying these things in his defense, Festus said with a loud voice, "You are out of your mind, Paul! Your great learning is driving you insane!" 
25 But Paul said, "I am not out of my mind, most excellent Festus, but am speaking words of truth and rationality. 
26 For the king knows about these things, to whom also I am speaking freely, for I am not convinced that these things in any way have escaped his notice, because this was not done in a corner. 
27 Do you believe the prophets, King Agrippa? I know that you believe." 
28 But Agrippa said to Paul, "In a short time are you persuading me to become a Christian?" 
29 And Paul replied, "I pray to God, whether in a short time or in a long time, not only you but also all those who are listening to me today may become such people as I also am, except for these bonds!"
30 Both the king and the governor got up, and Bernice and those who were sitting with them. 
31 And as they were going out, they were talking to one another, saying, "This man is not doing anything deserving death or imprisonment." 
32 And Agrippa said to Festus, "This man could have been released if he had not appealed to Caesar."