1 Then Yahweh said to Noah, "Go—you and all your household—into the ark, for I have seen you are righteous before me in this generation. 
2 From all the clean animals you must take for yourself seven pairs, a male and its mate. And from the animals that are not clean you must take two, a male and its mate, 
3 as well as from the birds of heaven seven pairs, male and female, to keep their kind alive on the face of the earth. 
4 For within seven days I will send rain upon the earth for forty days and forty nights. And I will blot out all the living creatures that I have made from upon the face of the ground." 
5 And Noah did according to all that Yahweh commanded him.
6 Noah was six hundred years old when the flood waters came upon the earth. 
7 And Noah and his sons and his wife, and the wives of his sons with him, went into the ark because of the waters of the flood. 
8 Of clean animals, and of animals which are not clean, and of the birds, and everything that creeps upon the ground, 
9 two of each went to Noah, into the ark, male and female, as God had commanded Noah. 
10 And it happened that after seven days the waters of the flood came over the earth. 
11 In the six hundredth year of the life of Noah, in the second month, on the seventeenth day of the month—on that day all the springs of the great deep were split open, and the windows of heaven were opened. 
12 And the rain came upon the earth forty days and forty nights. 
13 On this same day, Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth, the sons of Noah, and the wife of Noah and the three wives of his sons with them, went into the ark, 
14 they and all the living creatures according to their kind, and all the domesticated animals according to their kind, and all the creatures that creep upon the earth according to their kind, all the birds according to their kind, every winged creature. 
15 And they came to Noah to the ark, two of each, from every living thing in which was the breath of life. 
16 And those that came, male and female, of every living thing, came as God had commanded him. And Yahweh shut the door behind him. 
17 And the flood came forty days and forty nights upon the earth. And the waters increased, and lifted the ark, and it rose up from the earth. 
18 And the waters prevailed and increased greatly upon the earth. And the ark went upon the surface of the waters. 
19 And the waters prevailed overwhelmingly upon the earth, and they covered all the high mountains which were under the entire heaven. 
20 The waters swelled fifteen cubits above the mountains, covering them. 
21 And every living thing that moved on the earth perished—the birds, and the domesticated animals, and the wild animals, and everything that swarmed on the earth, and all humankind. 
22 Everything in whose nostrils was the breath of life, among all that was on dry land, died. 
23 And he blotted out every living thing upon the surface of the ground, from humankind, to animals, to creeping things, and to the birds of heaven; they were blotted out from the earth. Only Noah and those who were with him in the ark remained. 
24 And the waters prevailed over the earth one hundred and fifty days.