1 Now Abraham again took a wife, and her name was Keturah. 
2 And she bore to him Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah. 
3 And Jokshan fathered Sheba and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan were Asshurim and Letushim and Leummim. 
4 And the sons of Midian were Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abidah, and Eldaah. All of these were the children of Keturah. 
5 And Abraham gave all he had to Isaac. 
6 But to the sons of Abraham's concubines Abraham gave gifts. And while he was still living he sent them away eastward, away from his son Isaac, to the land of the east. 
7 Now these are the days of the years of the life of Abraham: one hundred and seventy-five years. 
8 And Abraham passed away and died in a good old age, old and full of years. And he was gathered to his people. 
9 And Isaac and Ishmael his sons buried him in the cave of Machpelah, in the field of Ephron, son of Zohar the Hittite, that was east of Mamre, 
10 the field that Abraham had bought from the Hittites. There Abraham was buried and Sarah his wife. 
11 And it happened that after the death of Abraham God blessed Isaac his son, and Isaac settled at Beer-Lahai-Roi.
12 Now these are the generations of Ishmael, the son of Abraham, that Hagar the Egyptian, the maidservant of Sarah, bore to Abraham. 
13 And these are the names of the sons of Ishmael, by their names according to their family records. The firstborn of Ishmael was Nebaioth, then Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam, 
14 Mishma, Dumah, Massa, 
15 Hadad, Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah.
16 These are the sons of Ishmael, and these are their names by their villages and by their encampments—12 leaders according to their tribes. 
17 Now these are the years of the life of Ishmael: 137 years. And he passed away and died, and was gathered to his people.
18 They settled from Havilah to Shur, which was opposite Egypt, going toward Asshur, opposite; he settled opposite all his brothers.
19 Now these are the generations of Isaac, the son of Abraham. Abraham fathered Isaac, 
20 And Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah, the daughter of Bethuel the Aramean of Paddan-Aram, the sister of Laban the Aramean, as his wife. 
21 And Isaac prayed to Yahweh on behalf of his wife, for she was barren. And Yahweh responded to his prayer, and Rebekah his wife conceived. 
22 And the children in her womb jostled each other, and she said, "If it is going to be like this, why be pregnant?" And she went to inquire of Yahweh. 
23 And Yahweh said to her, "Two nations are in your womb, and two peoples from birth shall be divided. And one people shall be stronger than the other. And the elder shall serve the younger." 
24 And when her days to give birth were completed, then—behold—twins were in her womb. 
25 And the first came out red, all his body was like a hairy coat, so they called his name Esau. 
26 And afterward his brother came out, and his hand grasped the heel of Esau, so his name was called Jacob. And Isaac was sixty years old at their birth. 
27 And the boys grew up. And Esau was a skilled hunter, a man of the field, but Jacob was a peaceful man, living in tents. 
28 And Isaac loved Esau because he could eat of his game, but Rebekah loved Jacob. 
29 Once Jacob cooked a thick stew, and Esau came in from the field, and he was exhausted. 
30 And Esau said to Jacob, "Give me some of that red stuff to gulp down, for I am exhausted!" (Therefore his name was called Edom). 
31 Then Jacob said, "Sell me your birthright first." 
32 And Esau said, "Look, I am going to die; now what is this birthright to me?" 
33 Then Jacob said, "Swear to me first." And he swore to him, and sold his birthright to Jacob. 
34 Then Jacob gave Esau bread, and thick lentil stew, and he ate and drank. Then he got up and went away. So Esau despised his birthright.