1 This is the record of the generations of Adam. When God created Adam, he made him in the likeness of God. 
2 Male and female he created them. And he blessed them. And he called their name "Humankind" when they were created. 
3 And when Adam had lived one hundred and thirty years, he fathered a child in his likeness, according to his image. And he called his name Seth. 
4 And the days of Adam after he fathered Seth were eight hundred years. And he fathered sons and daughters. 
5 And all the days of Adam which he lived were nine hundred and thirty years, and he died.
6 When Seth had lived one hundred and five years, he fathered Enosh. 
7 And after Seth had fathered Enosh he lived eight hundred and seven years, and fathered sons and daughters. 
8 And all the days of Seth were nine hundred and twelve years, and he died.
9 When Enosh lived ninety years, he fathered Kenan. 
10 And after Enosh fathered Kenan he lived eight hundred and fifteen years, and fathered sons and daughters. 
11 And all the days of Enosh were nine hundred and five years, and he died.
12 When Kenan had lived seventy years, he fathered Mahalalel. 
13 And after Kenan had fathered Mahalalel, he lived eight hundred and forty years, and fathered sons and daughters. 
14 And all the days of Kenan were nine hundred and ten years, and he died.
15 When Mahalalel had lived sixty-five years, he fathered Jared. 
16 And after Mahalalel had fathered Jared, he lived eight hundred and thirty years, and fathered sons and daughters. 
17 And all the days of Mahalalel were eight hundred and ninety-five years, and he died.
18 When Jared had lived one hundred and sixty-two years, he fathered Enoch. 
19 And after Jared had fathered Enoch, he lived eight hundred years, and fathered sons and daughters. 
20 And all the days of Jared were nine hundred and sixty-two years, and he died.
21 When Enoch had lived sixty-five years, he fathered Methuselah. 
22 And Enoch walked with God after he fathered Methuselah three hundred years, and fathered sons and daughters. 
23 And all the days of Enoch were three hundred and sixty-five years. 
24 And Enoch walked with God, and he was no more, for God took him.
25 When Methuselah had lived one hundred and eighty-seven years, he fathered Lamech. 
26 And after Methuselah had fathered Lamech, he lived seven hundred and eighty-two years, and fathered sons and daughters. 
27 And all the days of Methuselah were nine hundred and sixty-nine years, and he died.
28 When Lamech had lived one hundred and eighty-two years, he fathered a son. 
29 And he called his name Noah, saying, "This one shall relieve us from our work, and from the hard labor of our hands, from the ground which Yahweh had cursed. 
30 And after Lamech had fathered Noah he lived five hundred and ninety-five years, and he fathered sons and daughters. 
31 All the days of Lamech were seven hundred and seventy-seven years, and he died.
32 When Noah was five hundred years old, Noah fathered Shem, Ham, and Japheth.