1 When any one shall offer an oblation of sacrifice to the Lord, his offering shall be of fine flour, and he shall pour oil upon it, and put frankincense,
2 And shall bring it to the sons of Aaron the priests: and one of them shall take a handful of the flour and oil, and all the frankincense, and shall put it a memorial upon the altar for a most sweet savour to the Lord.
3 And the remnant of the sacrifice shall be Aaron's, and his sons', holy of holies of the offerings of the Lord.
4 But when thou offerest a sacrifice baked in the oven of flour, to wit, loaves without leaven, tempered with oil, and unleavened wafers, anointed with oil:
5 If thy oblation be from the fryingpan, of flour tempered with oil, and without leaven,
6 Thou shalt divide it into little pieces, and shalt pour oil upon it.
7 And if the sacrifice be from the gridiron, in like manner the flour shall be tempered with oil:
8 And when thou offerest it to the Lord, thou shalt deliver it to the hands of the priest.
9 And when he hath offered it, he shall take a memorial out of the sacrifice, and burn it upon the altar for a sweet savour to the Lord.
10 And whatsoever is left, shall be Aaron's, and his sons', holy of holies of the offerings of the Lord.
11 Every oblation that is offered to the Lord shall be made without leaven, neither shall any leaven or honey be burnt in the sacrifice to the Lord.
12 You shall offer only the firstfruits of them and gifts: but they shall not be put upon the altar, for a savour of sweetness,
13 Whatsoever sacrifice thou offerest, thou shalt season it with salt, neither shalt thou take away the salt of the covenant of thy God from thy sacrifice. In all thy oblations thou shalt offer salt.
14 But if thou offer a gift of the firstfruits of thy corn to the Lord, of the ears yet green, thou shalt dry it at the fire, and break it small like meal, and so shalt thou offer thy firstfruits to the Lord,
15 Pouring oil upon it and putting on frankincense, because it is the oblation of the Lord.
16 Whereof the priest shall burn for a memorial of the gift, part of the corn broken small and of the oil, and all the frankincense.