1 And when the eighth day was come, Moses called Aaron and his sons, and the ancients of Israel, and said to Aaron:
2 Take of the herd a calf for sin, and a ram for a holocaust, both without blemish, and offer them before the Lord.
3 And to the children of Israel thou shalt say: Take ye a he goat for sin, and a calf, and a lamb, both of a year old, and without blemish for a holocaust,
4 Also a bullock and a ram for peace offerings: and immolate them before the Lord, offering for the sacrifice of every one of them flour tempered with oil; for to day the Lord will appear to you.
5 They brought therefore all things that Moses had commanded before the door of the tabernacle: where when all the multitude stood,
6 Moses said: This is the word, which the Lord hath commanded: do it, and his glory will appear to you.
7 And he said to Aaron: Approach to the altar, and offer sacrifice for thy sin: offer the holocaust, and pray for thyself and for the people: and when thou hast slain the people's victim, pray for them, as the Lord hath commanded.
8 And forthwith Aaron, approaching to the altar, immolated the calf for his sin:
9 And his sons brought him the blood of it: and he dipped his finger therein, and touched the horns of the altar, and poured the rest at the foot thereof.
10 And the fat, and the little kidneys, and the caul of the liver, which are for sin, he burnt upon the altar, as the Lord had commanded Moses:
11 But the flesh and skins thereof he burnt with fire without the camp.
12 He immolated also the victim of holocaust: and his sons brought him the blood thereof, which he poured round about on the altar.
13 And the victim being cut into pieces, they brought to him the head and all the members, all which he burnt with fire upon the altar,
14 Having first washed the entrails and the feet with water.
15 Then offering for the sin of the people, he slew the he goat: and expiating the altar,
16 He offered the holocaust:
17 Adding in the sacrifice the libations, which are offered withal, and burning them upon the altar, besides the ceremonies of the morning holocaust.
18 He immolated also the bullock and the ram, the peace offerings of the people: and his sons brought him the blood, which he poured upon the altar round about.
19 The fat also of the bullock, and the rump of the ram, and the two little kidneys, with their fat, and the caul of the liver,
20 They put upon the breasts. And after the fat was burnt upon the altar,
21 Aaron separated their breasts, and the right shoulders, elevating them before the Lord, as Moses had commanded.
22 And stretching forth his hands to the people, he blessed them. And so the victims for sin, and the holocausts, and the peace offerings being finished, he came down.
23 And Moses and Aaron went into the tabernacle of the testimony, and afterwards came forth and blessed the people. And the glory of the Lord appeared to all the multitude:
24 And behold a fire, coming forth from the Lord, devoured the holocaust, and the fat that was upon the altar: which when the multitude saw, they praised the Lord, falling on their faces.