1 And if his oblation be a sacrifice of peace offerings, and he will offer of the herd, whether male or female, he shall offer them without blemish before the Lord.
2 And he shall lay his hand upon the head of his victim, which shall be slain in the entry of the tabernacle of the testimony, and the sons of Aaron the priests shall pour the blood round about upon the altar.
3 And they shall offer of the sacrifice of peace offerings, for an oblation to the Lord, the fat that covereth the entrails, and all the fat that is within.
4 The two kidneys with the fat wherewith the flanks are covered, and the caul of the liver with the two little kidneys.
5 And they shall burn them upon the altar, for a holocaust, putting fire under the wood: for an oblation of most sweet savour to the Lord.
6 But if his oblation and the sacrifice of peace offering be of the flock, whether he offer male or female, they shall be without blemish.
7 If he offer a lamb before the Lord,
8 He shall put his hand upon the head of his victim: and it shall be slain in the entry of the tabernacle of the testimony: and the sons of Aaron shall pour the blood thereof round about upon the altar.
9 And they shall offer of the victim of peace offerings a sacrifice to the Lord: the fat and the whole rump,
10 With the kidneys, and the fat that covereth the belly and all the vitals and both the little kidneys, with the fat that is about the flanks, and the caul of the liver with the little kidneys.
11 And the priest shall burn them upon the altar, for the food of the fire, and of the oblation of the Lord.
12 If his offering be a goat, and he offer it to the Lord,
13 He shall put his hand upon the head thereof: and shall immolate it in the entry of the tabernacle of the testimony. And the sons of Aaron shall pour the blood thereof round about upon the altar.
14 And they shall take of it for the food of the Lord's fire, the fat that covereth the belly, and that covereth all the vital parts:
15 The two little kidneys with the caul that is upon them which is by the flanks, and the fat of the liver with the little kidneys:
16 And the priest shall burn them upon the altar, for the food of the fire, and of a most sweet savour. All the fat shall be the Lord's.
17 By a perpetual law for your generations, and in all your habitations: neither blood nor fat shall you eat at all.